# 1. No Retreat

>**Arch**. The north wall is set with a stone arch, its keystone bearing Halaster's visage whose animated eyes follow any creature that approaches the arch. Carved into the wall above the keystone is a sigil.
>
>**Statue**. An alcove to the south contains a life-size, painted stone statue of Halaster perched atop a 4-foot-tall granite plinth like a vulture, squatting with arms outstretched and fingers curled like talons, as though ready to leap down and claw at anyone who stands before it (see "Halaster Statue" below).
>
>**Frescoes**. Six 10-foot-square painted frescoes adorn the walls around the arch: two flanking the arch on the north wall, two side by side on the west wall, and two side by side on the east wall. Each fresco displays a magically animated image of Halaster performing one or more mundane activities: stretching and yawning, juggling rods, sweeping the floor with a broom, trying to escape from a straitjacket, doing handstands, and shadowboxing.
>
>**Secret Door**. Hidden behind the fresco that depicts Halaster stretching and yawning is a secret door.
>

Targeting an animated fresco with a *dispel magic* spell has no effect other than to cause Halaster's image to silently mock the spell's caster. The images become motionless while in the area of an antimagic field.

#### Arch Gate to Level 22

The sigil inscribed above the arch is Halaster's personal rune. Both it and the face carved into the keystone are harmless.

Halaster can open the gate for 1 minute by touching the arch. The gate cannot otherwise be opened from this side. A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 35 on level 22, in the closest unoccupied space next to the gate located there.

#### Halaster Statue

Anytime a creature other than Halaster tries to cast a spell in this room, the statue's arms animate and perform the quick series of somatic gestures needed to cast *counterspell*. After casting its spell, the statue reverts to its inanimate state until triggered again. The counterspell attempt succeeds automatically.

The statue is a Large object with AC 17, 50 hit points, and immunity to all damage except force damage. The statue falls to pieces and loses its spellcasting ability if it is reduced to 0 hit points. Destroying the statue triggers a *magic mouth* spell; the mouth appears amid the shattered remains and says, "Is this the end of **Halaster Blackcloak**? Ha! I think not."