# 1. On Your Mark! Get Set! Go!

A broad set of stairs descend to a large chamber with the following features:

>**Pillars**. Four stone pillars support a 35-foot-high, vaulted ceiling strung with cobwebs. When one or more humanoids approach within 30 feet of the northeast pillar, a *magic mouth* spell activates, forming a stone mouth on the pillar.
>
>**Statues**. Tunnel exits to the north and south are flanked by 12-foot-tall stone statues of **Halaster Blackcloak**, depicted as a bearded, scowling old wizard wearing a robe covered with lidless eyes and clutching a stout scepter with a red dragon's head at each end.
>
>**Mine Carts**. Two mine carts made of corroded iron stand near a tunnel exit in the east wall.
>

#### Halaster Statues

These statues can't be moved, knocked over, or damaged in any way. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of transmutation magic around each one.

Any nonmagical weapon that strikes a statue for the purpose of dealing damage to it turns to dust.

#### Magic Mouth

In Halaster's voice, the magic mouth speaks the following words in Common before disappearing: "Welcome to the Obstacle Course! Place all weapons and magic items in the carts for safekeeping. You won't need them. Hurry! Time is running out."

#### Mine Carts

The axles, wheels, and brake handles of the mine carts are rusted in place. A *prestidigitation* cantrip or similar magic can free the mechanisms and render a mine cart functional for the spell's duration, but it still squeals loudly when rolled across the floor.

The characters are under no compulsion to heed Halaster's *magic mouth* spell. Any items they place in the carts and leave there are safe for 24 hours. After that, all unattended objects in the carts disappear—taken by Halaster to area 5 on level 23. Characters can find the missing items waiting for them there.

#### Covered Pit

This 40-foot-deep hidden pit (see "Covered Pits") is located between the two northernmost statues. Halaster has cast a *glyph of warding* spell at the bottom of the pit, set to trigger a *fireball* spell (save DC 22) when a creature lands on the pit floor. The fireball is created using a 7th-level spell slot, engulfs all creatures in the pit, and deals 42 (12d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures in the pit have disadvantage on the saving throw, as there's precious little space to maneuver.

#### Teleport Trap

Halaster has placed a teleport trap (see "Teleport Traps") between the two southern statues. A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination          |
|:-----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–12 | The teleport trap in area 10  |
| 13–18 | The teleport trap in area 19  |
| 19–20 | The teleport trap in area 40c |

***Additional Effect: Elder Rune.*** The first time a creature triggers this teleport trap, an elder rune (see "Elder Runes") appears in the air between the two southern statues a split second after the creature disappears, and at the same moment a booming voice shouts, "Teleported!" Draw a card from the Elder Runes Deck (see *appendix B*) to determine which rune appears. This rune targets all creatures within 60 feet of it with the same effect (bane or boon, determined randomly).