# 10. Common Areas

Most of the ceilings in this area are 10 feet high. Blood-smeared tiles cover the floors and walls throughout.

#### 10a. Dining Hall

This room has a vaulted ceiling, rising 15 feet high. The guards in area 10b notice any light or noise here and quickly investigate. The room has the following features:

>**Table and Benches**. A 25-foot-long stone dining table is in the middle of the room, flanked by two equally long stone benches.
>
>**Hutch**. A stone hutch against the west wall contains assorted iron plates and flatware.
>

#### 10b. Den

This room is largely empty, having been stripped of furniture. Two male **duergar** guards named Malgorn and Zelk stand watch here. They have orders to escort visitors to **Valtagar Steelshadow** in area 15.

Malgorn is one card away from owning a complete deck of Three-Dragon Ante cards made of thin-pressed gold. He has begun obsessing over the missing card ("The Thief") and complains about it incessantly. He has found the other cards scattered throughout the Terminus Level and is storing them in a pouch tied to his belt. He's not optimistic about finding the last card, though. Sick of hearing about the situation, Zelk adds to Malgorn's misery by repeatedly asking him if he has searched in places he knows Malgorn has already thoroughly checked.

***Treasure.*** Each of the sixty-nine gold cards in Malgorn's incomplete deck is worth 10 gp, but the set is worth 2,500 gp once the deck contains all seventy cards. The characters can find the missing card in area 23c.