# 10. Ritual Chamber

>**Purple Flames**. Black wax candles set in niches along the walls of this 20-foot-high room burn with a purple flame, filling the room with dim light.
>
>**Cult Ritual**. Six **cult fanatics** are chanting in unison. Each one stands next to a black stone pillar and is focused on a roiling fog cloud, 8 feet in diameter, that floats at the center of the room 10 feet above the floor. Lines of black energy run between the pillars and the cloud.
>

The cult fanatics are named Abberoch, Belora, Liana, Shanzo, Torfiana, and Uzalyn. They are performing a ritual designed to anchor one of **Umbraxakar**'s memories to this room, which will enable the shadow dragon to pull more of Vanrakdoom into the Shadowfell. They chant the following verse over and over in Common: "Darkness quench the sun. Darkness swallow the moon. Darkness claim this dungeon and all that dwell within." If attacked, they continue to chant while also defending themselves.

Killing a cult fanatic deactivates one of the pillars, destroying the line of energy emanating from it and weakening the ritual. When all six lines of energy are destroyed, the fog cloud vanishes.

As long as at least one column is active, characters see a faint image in the cloud of an adult bronze dragon surrounded by figures in black robes wearing the holy symbol of Shar and reading from scrolls. As the great creature writhes in pain, its bronze scales begin to darken.

The lines of black energy between the pillars and the cloud are 10 feet above the floor and easily avoided. Any creature that comes into contact with one takes 10 (3d6) necrotic damage from it.

#### Surprise!

Each time a cult fanatic dies, a **shadow assassin** (see *appendix A*) rises from the fanatic's corpse and joins the battle, acting on the same initiative count as the fanatic that "birthed" it. The shadow assassins guard the room thereafter.

#### Treasure

Each cult fanatic carries an obsidian holy symbol of Shar (25 gp each). The leader, Abberoch, also has a silver rod with one end formed in the shape of a key (70 gp). The rod unlocks the double door in area 18.