# 10. Roller-Dragon

This oval chamber has a 10-foot-high ceiling. Standing against the east wall is a stone statue of a young gold dragon on stone rollers. The dragon's mouth is agape, teeth bared, and its wings are folded in tight.

#### Dragon Statue

The statue, which weighs 5 tons, can move forward or backward on its stone rollers. It moves on its own when the teleport trap triggers (see "Teleport Trap" below) but otherwise remains still. While the statue is still, its rollers are locked to prevent the statue from being moved.

The rolling statue is designed to fit snugly in the dungeon's 10-foot-wide passageways. It is a Large object with AC 17, 120 hit points, and immunity to all damage except force damage.

#### Teleport Trap

A teleport trap fills the 10-foot-square space in front of the west exit. A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination          |
|:-----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–12 | The teleport trap in area 13a |
| 13–18 | The teleport trap in area 22b |
| 19–20 | The teleport trap in area 40c |

***Additional Effect: Rolling Dragon.*** When a creature is teleported to this location from another teleport trap, a disembodied voice shouts, "Teleported!" at the same moment the 10-foot-wide dragon statue rolls forward 60 feet, passing through the teleport trap's space and slamming into the wall of the corridor that leads west. Any creature in the path of the rolling statue, including the one teleported by the trap, must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw to get out of its way. On a failed save, the creature is struck by the rolling statue, falls prone, and takes 55 (10d10) bludgeoning damage.

The statue returns to its original position against the east wall after 1 minute, ready to roll again the next time a creature teleports into the room.