# 10. Arcane Display

These areas have 20-foot-high, arched ceilings.

#### 10a. Zigzagging Gallery

Characters who make a loud racket in this hall attract the seven **flameskulls** in area 10b. The features of this hall are as follows:

>**Chandeliers**. Radiant crystal chandeliers levitate near the ceiling.
>
>**Paintings**. Paintings line the walls. They come in many sizes and have gilded frames.
>

The hall contains three chandeliers, their locations marked on map 23. Each chandelier magically sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. A chandelier can bear up to 150 pounds of additional weight before falling. Casting *dispel magic* on a chandelier causes it to go dark and fall to the floor with a loud crash.

The paintings are stuck to the walls with *sovereign glue* and require *universal solvent* to remove without destroying them. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of illusion magic around each painting, of which there are hundreds. Half of them are portraits of Halaster, looking as demented as ever in his *robe of eyes*. About a quarter of them are portraits of other wizards (former apprentices). The remainder are paintings of unknown people with the heads of small beasts (badgers, mice, rabbits, birds, fish, and so forth). The paintings' eyes (including the eyes on Halaster's robes) seem to follow visitors as they move through the hall—a minor magical illusion.

#### 10b. Shield Trap

>**Flameskulls**. Unless they were drawn to area 10a, seven **flameskulls** float here, their green flames the only sources of light in this room.
>
>**Decor**. More paintings like the ones in area 10a line the walls. A golden shield encrusted with gemstones hangs on the south wall among the paintings.
>

Halaster made the flameskulls from the skulls of wizards who tried and failed to become his apprentices. They attack intruders on sight, bombarding them with *fireball* spells in the first round of combat. The flameskulls pursue intruders that flee, using their *mage hand* spells to open doors if needed.

Hanging on a stone peg that juts from the wall, the gold-plated shield is etched with arcane runes. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of necromancy magic radiating from the shield. A character who examines the runes and succeeds on a DC 18 Intelligence (Arcana) check can ascertain that the runes give the shield the magical ability to trap creatures inside it.

Any creature that touches the shield must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become trapped inside it, along with everything the creature is wearing or carrying. The shield displays a faint image of the trapped creature in its reflective outer surface. The shield can trap only one creature at a time. Whenever it traps a new creature, the shield releases its current prisoner, which appears in an unoccupied space as close to the shield as possible.

A creature trapped in the shield can do nothing except attempt a DC 18 Charisma saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, the creature is released and appears in an unoccupied space as close to the shield as possible. On a failed save, the creature takes 31 (7d8) necrotic damage. If this damage reduces the trapped creature to 0 hit points, its body is destroyed as its soul is released into the afterlife.

***Treasure.*** The shield is worth 7,500 gp and can be used as an ordinary shield, but battle damage might reduce its value as an art object at your discretion.