# 11. Weird Magic

Halaster fills these caves with magical effects designed to confound adventurers.

#### 11a. Hammer Time

>**Motes**. This 20-foot-high cave is dimly lit by dozens of tiny, tinkling motes of light that flit about like moths.
>
>**Golem**. Swinging ineffectually at the lights is a **stone golem** that has stone mallets at the end of its arms instead of hands.
>

The hammer-handed golem is carved to resemble Halaster (see "Stonecloaks") and is hostile toward any creature that doesn't look like the Mad Mage. When the golem hits a creature with one of its mallets, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn.

A character disguised as Halaster can make a Charisma (Deception) check contested by the golem's Wisdom (Insight) check, with advantage on the check if the portrayal is particularly convincing. On a successful check, the golem is indifferent toward that character.

The magical light motes are harmless but attracted to movement, and they swirl around any creatures that pass through the cave. The lights can't be dispelled, but they are suppressed in the area of an *antimagic field* spell or similar effect.

#### 11b. Statue of Transformation

This dead-end cave has a domed ceiling 15 feet high. A 5-foot-tall statue stands atop a 2-foot-tall granite plinth near the east wall. The ancient-looking statue depicts a hooded woman with her hands cupped in front of her. Part of the statue's head has broken off, and spongy white toadstools are growing out from the broken stone.

The statue is a Medium object with AC 17, 30 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of transmutation magic around it. Whenever a nonmagical object weighing 10 pounds or less is placed in the statue's cupped hands, it turns into a different object as determined by rolling percentile dice and consulting the Object Transformation table. The statue becomes nonmagical if it loses more than half its hit points.

##### Object Transformation
|  d100 | New Object                                                               |
|:-----:|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 01–10 | Bag of 20 caltrops (2 lb.)                                               |
| 11–25 | Bar of soap (1/4 lb.)                                                    |
| 26–35 | Clay bowl containing 20 candied plums (1 lb.)                            |
| 36–50 | Dead, rotting fish (2 lb.)                                               |
| 51–60 | Full water skin (5 lb.)                                                  |
| 61–75 | Hunk of moldy cheese (1/4 lb.)                                           |
| 76–90 | Stirge meat pie (1 lb.) served piping hot                                |
| 91–00 | Magic Halaster doll (1 lb.) that says something each time it is squeezed |

Each time an object is removed from the statue's cupped hands, there is a 20 percent chance that the white toadstools growing out of the statue's broken head release a cloud of milky-white spores. The cloud fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on the statue and lasts for 1 minute. Any creature that starts its turn in the cloud must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or contract a disease called blinding sickness, which lasts until cured with a *lesser restoration* spell or similar magic. Pain grips the diseased creature's mind, and its eyes turn milky white. Until the disease is cured, the creature is blinded and has disadvantage on Wisdom checks and Wisdom saving throws.

Sunlight or any effect that deals fire damage or radiant damage destroys the toadstools.

#### 11c. Unreliable Oracle

This empty, 10-foot-high cavern has a large question mark carved into the east wall. If anyone asks a question in this cave, a whispering voice replies with an answer determined by rolling percentile dice and consulting the Oracle Answers table.

##### Oracle Answers
|  d100 | Answer                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|:-----:|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 01–25 | "No more answers today! Come back tomorrow." The oracle then ceases to function for 24 hours.                                                                                            |
| 26–40 | "You already know the answer."                                                                                                                                                           |
| 41–65 | "Ah, one of life's great mysteries."                                                                                                                                                     |
| 66–80 | "Can you please rephrase the question?"                                                                                                                                                  |
| 81–00 | "Hold, please." This answer is followed by 1d10 minutes of instrumental music, during which time the oracle answers no further questions. When the music ends, roll again on this table. |