# 11. Kitchen and Pantry

Food is stored and prepared here. The blood that leaks from the walls and floors makes little of it appetizing.

#### 11a. Kitchen

>**Fireplace**. This 15-foot-high room is warm and smells of cheap spices. A large fireplace dominates the west wall. A bed of hot coals fills the hearth with smoke and orange light. Suspended above the coals is a covered iron cauldron.
>
>**Duergar Cook**. An old, hunchbacked duergar wearing what amounts to a dusty gray sack stirs the cauldron with an iron spoon. He is without armor or weapons.
>
>**Preparation Area**. Short stone tables in the middle of the kitchen are used for food preparation. Utensils hang from hooks above them.
>
>**Sink**. A stone faucet and handle jut from the south wall, just above a semicircular basin enclosed by a 2-foot-high retaining wall.
>

The cook, Lorga, prepares bland mushroom stew. Despite his blinding cataracts, he knows his way around the kitchen and the adjoining pantry. If he hears one or more characters enter, he shouts in Dwarvish, "The stew will be ready when it's ready! Get out, lest ye taste none of it!" If they don't leave at once, he says, "My eyes are clouded, but my ears and nose work fine. Test not my resolve!"

A *lesser restoration* spell or similar magic restores Lorga's sight. He offers no thanks to whoever rids him of the disability. As dour and pessimistic as any other duergar, he quickly finds something else to complain about.

Lorga poses no threat (0 XP). He merely wishes to die serving Valtagar, whom he has known since the prince was a child. Lorga isn't holding out hope that he'll ever hear the belching forges of Gracklstugh again, but it infuriates him that Valtagar—a duergar prince—must kowtow to the "mad giant" **Fazrian**. Lorga suggests that the characters locate Valtagar and forge an alliance with him before they all fall to the giant's sword.

Once the hot coals are doused or swept from the fireplace, the chimney can be climbed easily. After 90 feet, it breaks into a damp, soot-stained natural cave roughly 50 feet square. The cave contains nothing of interest.

Turning the handle on the faucet opens a valve that allows fresh, cold water from an underground stream to pour into the basin and mix with the blood pooling there (see "Regional Effects"). A stone plug covers the drainpipe in the bottom of the basin.

#### 11b. Pantry

Fifty gray sacks rest atop stone shelves carved into the walls of this 10-foot-high room. The sacks contain edible fungi and dried moss.