# 11. Dead End

>**Teleport Trap**. A teleport trap (see "Teleport Traps") is situated near the bend in the corridor.
>
>**Corpse**. A dead drow lies on the floor at the end of the tunnel, around the corner from the teleport trap.
>

The rotting corpse of a drow mage lies slumped against a wall at the end of the tunnel, his face frozen in a scream, his black robe torn and dusty. The drow, Elvilac Zmirth, was killed by Netherskull's remote Death Ray (one of the death tyrant's regional effects) after finishing a long rest in this dead-end tunnel. His sister, Lorlynn, can be found in area 14b.

#### Treasure

Characters who search Elvilac's remains find a zurkhwood wand (used as an arcane focus), a spellbook with black leather covers, and a spider silk pouch containing three soft purple mushrooms that give off an aura when subjected to a *detect magic* spell or similar magic. Elvilac's spellbook contains all the spells he had prepared (see the **drow mage** stat block), plus *dispel magic*, *stoneskin*, and *telekinesis*. Each of the purple mushrooms can be eaten as an action and has the magical properties of a *potion of greater healing*.

#### Teleport Trap

A teleport trap fills the 10-foot-square space marked on map 15. A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination          |
|:-----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–12 | The teleport trap in area 6   |
| 13–16 | The teleport trap in area 24a |
| 17–20 | The teleport trap in area 28  |