# 11. Melissara's Study

>**Bookcase**. A long bookcase with glass doors takes up much of the north wall (see "Bookcase" below).
>
>**Desk**. A sturdy writing desk covered in stacks of parchment stands against the east wall (see "Desk" below).
>
>**Workbench**. A workbench near the south wall holds a set of alchemist's supplies.
>

#### Bookcase

The bookcase's glass doors aren't locked.

***Treasure.*** The case holds texts on various arcane subjects, focusing on evocation magic and planar travel. Three of the texts are valuable (100 gp each). They are titled *Tenebrous and the True Path to Lichdom*, *Musings of a Planar Traveler*, and *Touched by the Far Realm: A Wizard's Lamentable Descent into Lunacy*. Tucked among these mundane tomes is Melissara's spellbook, which bears the (right side up) Shadowdusk family crest on the cover and contains the spells Melissara has prepared, plus *arcane lock* and *glyph of warding*.

#### Desk

The desk holds an orderly stack of notes. Half of the notes detail meticulous magical experiments and studies regarding the nature of the Far Realm. The other notes are nonsensical ravings that hint at a fractured mind slowly coming undone.

The bottom drawer is sealed with an *arcane lock* spell cast by Melissara. Inside is a small black journal. The first page of the book is trapped with a *glyph of warding* spell, whose explosive runes deal fire damage (save DC 15). The glyph is keyed to go off if anyone but Melissara opens the journal (a precaution to prevent her cousins from reading it and discovering her secrets).

The journal details Melissara's unease with her family, as well as her growing fear of losing her mind and soul to the Far Realm. She seems desperate to use her writings in the journal as a touchstone to her own mind.