# 12. Ghaunadaur Shrine

**Intelligent Oozes**. Clinging to the 20-foot-high ceiling are three intelligent black puddings that were once drow worshipers of Ghaunadaur (see "Intelligent Black Puddings"). These oozes are hostile toward all intruders. (A battle here also attracts the **Huge gray ooze** in area 14.)

**Shrine**. Nestled in a 12-foot-high alcove at the back of the cave is a misshapen granite altar. Staring out from it is a 1-foot-diameter purple disk inscribed with a black, glaring eye. Looming behind the altar is a 9-foot-tall statue carved in the form of an amorphous, forward-lurching pillar that reaches out with a dozen clawed human arms.

The disk embedded in the altar can be removed by turning it 360 degrees counterclockwise. Removing the disk causes copper coins to spill out from a hollow cavity inside the altar (see "Treasure" below).

If the altar is opened, the multi-armed representation of Ghaunadaur animates and attacks creatures within 10 feet of it or within 5 feet of the altar. The statue is a Large object with AC 17, 50 hit points, a speed of 0 feet, and immunity to acid, poison, and psychic damage. It has the following ability scores: Strength 14, Dexterity 10, Intelligence 3, Wisdom 3, and Charisma 1. It has blindsight out to a range of 10 feet and is blind beyond this radius.

As an action, the animated statue makes a single melee weapon attack (+10 to hit) with its claws. On a hit, the claws deal 22 (5d6 + 5) slashing damage to the target, and any nonmagical armor worn by the target is destroyed.

#### Treasure

The altar's hidden cavity contains 2,000 cp.