# 12. Old Behir Lair

A mated pair of behirs once occupied this corner of the dungeon, but the Stonecloaks killed them.

#### 12a. Bones and Stones

>**Uneven Surfaces**. The cavern's roof and floor are jagged and uneven, with the distance between them ranging from 10 to 30 feet.
>
>**Scorched Walls**. The walls are covered with scorch marks (from the behirs' lightning).
>
>**Skeletons**. The skeletons of two enormous, multi-legged reptiles (behirs) lie in the middle of the cavern, surrounded by glimmering blue scales.
>
>**Shattered Statue**. Rubble from what looks like a large statue are spread around the skeletons.
>

The behirs were smashed to a pulp by Halaster's stone golems, but their skulls and bones are mostly intact.

One of Halaster's stone golems was destroyed in the battle that took place here. Among its shattered limbs and various unrecognizable fragments, characters can find the right half of the golem's shattered head. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of illusion magic around the partial head. The first time a character approaches within 10 feet of the head, the source of the aura becomes apparent as a *magic mouth* spell cast on it says, in **Ezzat**'s voice and in Common:

Down and down and down once more

Awaits the mad one's doom;

Between there and here, heaven's tears.

Evil knocking on the Far Realm's door.

#### 12b. Treasure Cave

This cave contains a hoard left behind by the behirs.

***Treasure.*** The behirs' unguarded hoard consists of 12,000 cp, 5,450 sp, 1,825 gp, four garnets (100 gp each), a dwarven burial circlet fashioned from mithral and set with four aquamarines (2,500 gp), and a *chime of opening*.

#### 12c. Column of Eyes

A natural column of rock stands in the entrance to this cave. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of conjuration magic surrounding the column. Whenever a creature comes within 10 feet of the column, dozens of eyes open on its surface, staring in all directions. The eyes follow creatures that move past the column, but they are only harmless magical effects created by Halaster. Casting *dispel magic* on the column removes the eyes from it permanently.

The cave once served as a larder for the behirs. It is strewn with the bones of past victims: unlucky adventurers, duergar, drow, quaggoths, cloakers, darkmantles, hook horrors, and umber hulks. Nothing of value can be found among the bones.