# 12. Melairkyn Foundry

The foundry is unbearably hot. Characters who linger here for 1 hour or more while the forges are operating are subject to the effects of extreme heat (see *chapter 5* of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*).

#### 12a. Hell Hounds

>**Ceiling**. This hall has an arched, 30-foot-high ceiling.
>
>**Hounds**. Five **hell hounds** patrol the hall. They obey the commands of fire giants and attack intruders on sight.
>
>**Open Pits**. Three 10-foot-square pits in the floor contain discarded scraps of metal.
>

The pits are 70 feet deep but partially filled with scrap metal that reduces their effective depth. The western pit is 20 feet deep, the central pit is 50 feet deep, and the eastern pit is 10 feet deep. Any creature that falls into the pit lands on jagged shards of metal and takes slashing damage instead of bludgeoning damage from the fall.

#### 12b–12d. Elemental Forges

These three identical chambers have stone stairs that climb 10 feet to each platform, at the back of which is a raging hot forge of blackened stone. The curved ceilings in these chambers are 20 feet high.

Three **fire giants** (two females named Dralkana and Ingritt and a male named Yarshoss) are stationed here, one at each forge. Their job is to melt down fragments of scrap iron so that Hrossk, the fire giant metalsmith in area 11, can reshape them for the construct in area 15. It's tedious work, and the fire giants are restless and spoiling for a fight.

The fires in the forges are conjured from the Elemental Plane of Fire. A stone lever built into each forge closes a valve in the back of it, extinguishing the flames. Any creature that enters a lit forge or starts its turn in one takes 55 (10d10) fire damage.