# 13. Transmutorium

**Arcturia** keeps some of her horrific handiwork here.

#### 13a. Woven Eyes

>**Pillars**. Three pillars of polished black stone stand in the corners of the room. Attached to each pillar at waist height is a tarnished silver knob.
>
>**Tapestry**. A huge, sickly purple tapestry hanging on the west wall undulates as though alive. Its surface is covered with eleven unblinking eyes: one large central eye and ten small peripheral eyes. (Hidden behind the tapestry is a secret door.)
>
>**Crystal Door**. A crystal door in one corner of the room stands closed. Beyond the door is a small, magically lit chamber. (See area 13b for details.)
>

All three pillars and their silver knobs radiate auras of transmutation magic under the scrutiny of a *detect magic* spell. Any creature that touches a pillar's silver knob is teleported to area 5b. Once a silver knob has teleported a creature, it disappears. Eight hours after the last knob vanishes, all three reappear.

***Tapestry of Eyes.*** The fleshy tapestry is Xebekal, a beholder that invaded **Arcturia**'s dungeon years ago. The lich snared the eye tyrant and used a *wish* spell to transform it. In the form of a tapestry, the beholder retains its darkvision and can see whatever is in front of it, but nothing behind it. It can't speak, and its movement is limited to harmless flapping. It can't use its Antimagic Cone trait or take any actions or reactions.

Xebekal can be contacted with telepathy. It promises wealth and power to anyone who restores it, but has no intention of honoring its promises. Only a *wish* spell can turn the tapestry back into the beholder it once was.

The tapestry has AC 5, 33 hit points, immunity to poison damage, and vulnerability to fire damage. If it is reduced to 0 hit points, the tapestry is destroyed. The characters gain no XP for killing the beholder in this form, given its present helplessness.

#### 13b. Alteration Chamber

>**Crystal Door**. The door to this chamber is made of 3-inch-thick transparent crystal.
>
>**Brass Panels**. Embedded in the wall next to the door is a brass panel with four brass buttons arranged in a diamond formation. (A similar panel appears inside the chamber.)
>
>**Light**. A crystal dome in the ceiling sheds pale white light, illuminating the whole chamber.
>
>**Key**. Lying on the chamber floor is a flat mithral key.
>

The buttons on each brass panel and their effects are as follows:

The **top button** is engraved with an arrow pointing up. Pressing it opens the crystal door, which retracts into the ceiling. This button is locked and cannot be pressed if the door is already up.

The **bottom button** is engraved with an arrow pointing down. Pressing it shuts the crystal door by lowering it back into place. This button is locked and cannot be pressed if the door is already down.

The **left button** is engraved with a tiny human stick figure. The button is locked and cannot be pressed while the crystal door is open. If the button is pressed while the door is closed, the light emanating from the crystal dome on the ceiling flickers, and all creatures in the chamber behind the door magically shrink as though affected by the reduce effect of the *enlarge/reduce* spell (no saving throw allowed). The effect lasts for 24 hours.

The **right button** is engraved with a larger human stick figure and functions like the left button, except the creatures in the alteration chamber are enlarged instead of reduced.

If a magically reduced creature is subjected to the chamber's enlarge effect, or a magically enlarged creature is subjected to the reduce effect, the two alterations cancel each other out, and the creature reverts to normal size. The effects of the chamber aren't cumulative—a reduced creature that is reduced again or an enlarged creature that is enlarged again doesn't change size further.

Each time the alteration chamber's reduce effect or enlarge effect is activated, roll a d6. On a 1, the chamber malfunctions. Instead of the normal effect, all creatures inside the chamber must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. You can replace this damaging effect with a more benign one. For example, the chamber's magic might cause creatures' noses to elongate or turn their skin blue; an alteration of this sort can be undone with a *greater restoration* spell or similar magic.

***Mithral Key.*** The flat, 6-inch-long mithral key is shaped like a J with a loop at the top. This key is one of six needed to activate the weapon of mass disintegration in area 37.