# 13. The Scavenger

The *Scavenger* is a 290-foot-long, 50-foot-wide, 25-ton spelljamming vessel—a ship designed to travel through space. Halaster detected the vessel as it orbited Toril and lured it through a magic gate into Undermountain. He then boarded the vessel, stole its spelljamming helm (the magic device that propels and steers the craft), and took the helm to *level 23*, leaving the captain and crew to fend for themselves.

Mind flayers constructed the *Scavenger* to resemble a giant cuttlefish. Its hull is made of an alien resin as hard as thick wood. Behind the ship's tentacle-shaped rams are two circular windows of transparent crystal resembling eyes, and an upper deck (area 13a) equipped with four ballistae manned by gray slaadi. An open hatch on the upper deck provides access to the lower deck (areas 13b through area 13h). The ceilings on the lower deck are 10 feet high.

The ship sits in a 5-foot-deep pool of ooze in an immense cavern, the ceiling of which varies from 30 to 50 feet high. A character can climb the ship's hull with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check; the distance from the cavern floor to the upper deck is roughly 20 feet.

The *Scavenger* is buoyant but has no sails, oars, or other means of propulsion without its spelljamming helm. The vessel can hold up to 10 tons of cargo, and its standard crew complement is twenty. It has AC 15, 400 hit points, a damage threshold of 20, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.

Only a carefully worded *wish* spell can free the *Scavenger* from the cavernous depths of Undermountain. Characters who free the ship from its confines can sell it for 20,000 gp, minus 50 gp for each point of damage the ship has taken.

> ##### Captain N'ghathrod
>
>The captain of the *Scavenger* is an illithid pirate named N'ghathrod. N'ghathrod is a mind flayer arcanist (see the sidebar in the "**Mind Flayer**" entry in the *Monster Manual*) with 111 hit points. It uses a crystal orb as an arcane focus and dresses in pirate garb. A wooden peg replaces one of its feet, which it lost in battle years ago. Tucked in the pockets of its overcoat are four fist-sized gray gemstones—the control gems for the gray slaadi that guard the ship's upper deck. N'ghathrod carries a rapier as an affectation but it not proficient with the weapon.
>
>Before it turned to a life of space piracy, N'ghathrod lived in a mind flayer colony on the ringed planet of Glyth, which is farther from the sun than Toril. A few weeks after the *Scavenger* became trapped in Undermountain, N'ghathrod turned on its orog crew out of hunger, killing four of them and eating their brains. The remaining orog crew members fled to avoid a similar fate. The arrival of adventurers provides N'ghathrod with an unexpected but welcome food source. It tries to separate one party member from the others with a wall of force spell. It then uses its Mind Blast to stun its prey as a prelude to extracting its brain.
>
>If N'ghathrod is reduced to 55 hit points or fewer, its survival instinct supersedes its hunger, prompting it to surrender telepathically. The mind flayer apologizes for its assault and proposes an end to hostilities. Given a chance, it recounts how the *Scavenger* was orbiting Toril when it was pulled through a magic gate to its current location. It also reveals that the ship's spelljamming helm vanished shortly thereafter (spirited away by a *wish* spell, though the mind flayer doesn't know it). If the mind flayer and the characters establish a truce, N'ghathrod offers to "guard the ship" while the characters set out to retrieve the stolen helm. If the characters succeed, N'ghathrod allows them to claim the vessel as their own, accepting a demotion until it finds a way to get rid of them.
>
>***Lair Actions.*** When fighting aboard the Scavenger, N'ghathrod can take lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), N'ghathrod can take one lair action to cause one of the following effects:

>- N'ghathrod creates a magical duplicate of itself anywhere aboard the ship. Formed out of psionic energy, this duplicate lasts until it is reduced to 0 hit points, until it is dispelled (DC 15), or until N'ghathrod takes another lair action. The duplicate has the statistics of a normal mind flayer and is friendly toward N'ghathrod, but not under its control. It cannot leave the Scavenger.
>- N'ghathrod fills all interior areas of the ship with mind-warping images and sounds of the Far Realm that last until initiative count 20 on the next round. Any creature that isn't an aberration that starts its turn inside the ship must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage.

#### 13a. Upper Deck

**Ballistae**. Three ballistae are mounted on the forward deck, and a fourth on the aft deck. Four **gray slaadi** shapechanged into orogs operate the ballistae, one per weapon.

**Hatch**. Not visible from the floor of the cavern is an open hatch with a ladder that descends to area 13b.

A ballista is a Large object with AC 15, 50 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Before it can be fired, a ballista must be loaded and aimed. (The ballistae are loaded when the characters first arrive.) It takes one action to load the weapon, one action to aim it, and one action to fire it (+6 to hit, range 120/480 ft., one target). On a hit, a ballista bolt deals 16 (3d10) piercing damage.

Each ballista comes with ten bolts stored in a rack built into the weapon's stand. A swivel base gives each ballista a firing arc of 180 degrees.

The slaadi have been trained to load, aim, and fire the ballistae. They defend the deck against all boarders, relying on their darkvision to keep watch.

#### 13b. Cargo Hold

>**Ladder**. A ladder bolted to a wall climbs to the upper deck (area 13a). Hanging upside down on the ladder is a dead orog in plate armor.
>
>**Crates**. A second dead orog in plate armor, along with its greataxe, lies amid the wreckage of several wooden crates. Toward the back of the hold are five intact wooden crates and five wooden chests secured under heavy cargo nets.
>
>**Dead Cook**. The hallway leading toward the lower deck's forward sections contains a third dead orog, this one wearing a bloodstained apron and no armor.
>

The dead orog on the ladder hangs by one of its spiked boots. A character can use an action to dislodge the dangling fellow. Examination of all three orogs reveals that their skulls were cracked open and their brains sucked out—the hallmark of a mind flayer attack. The orog in the apron lies outside the door to area 13c.

***Treasure.*** The crew plundered most of the food supplies before fleeing the ship, leaving behind five treasure chests and five intact crates (numbered below for ease of bookkeeping). The chests are unlocked, their locks broken off.

Chest 1 contains 400 sp, 180 gp, and three gold bracelets (25 gp each). Half buried by coins is a 5-inch-diameter miniature beholder made of enameled gold with a black pearl central eye and multicolored spinels at the ends of its eyestalks (2,500 gp).

Chest 2 contains six bolts of elven silk (50 gp each) and an engraved box containing five 3-inch-tall figurines—each one depicting a kind of metallic dragon and made of the appropriate metal (250 gp for the set).

Chest 3 contains six *vials of stardust* that radiate an aura of illusion magic under the scrutiny of a *detect magic* spell. An *identify* spell or similar magic reveals that the dust has a singular magical property. Any creature that sprinkles the dust over itself gains the ability to cast the *dream* spell once as an action (spell save DC 15), requiring no components.

Chest 4 contains 320 gp and a silk pouch holding four blue pellets, each of which reproduces the magical property of a *potion of healing* when swallowed.

Chest 5 contains a matching set of five copper goblets with silver filigree (25 gp each), a black coral necklace (250 gp), and a mummified elven hand wearing two gem-studded gold rings (250 gp each).

Crates 1 through 3 contain poisoned rations. A character who inspects these rations and succeeds on a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check can tell that they're unfit to eat. Any creature that ingests a helping of poisoned rations must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 24 hours.

Crate 4 contains 60 days of edible dry rations.

Crate 5 is stamped with the symbol of a smiling gnome face encircled with the words "KRICKENHOF'S KRAFTWERKS" in carnival letters. Packed in peanuts are three gnome inventions: a spring-loaded pogo stick (25 gp), a wind-up tomato masher (125 gp), and a strap-on helmet with a wooden propeller mounted to the top of it. This *propeller helm* is an uncommon wondrous item to which only a Small humanoid can attune. While worn, the helm allows its wearer to use an action to cast the *levitate* spell, requiring no components. The helm's propeller spins and whirs loudly until the spell ends. Each time the spell ends, there is a 50 percent chance that the helm loses its magic and becomes nonmagical.

#### 13c. Galley and Mess Hall

This room contains a dining table, six stools, and a small iron stove. Cupboards built into the walls have been thrown open, their contents (utensils and dishware) scattered across the floor.

Casting a *detect magic* spell in this cabin reveals an aura of evocation magic emanating from inside the wall that separates this room from area 13d.

***Treasure.*** Characters who search the cabin and succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) spot a tiny hole at the base of the wall that separates this cabin from area 13d. Two feet above this hole, lodged inside the wall, is a *sending stone*. (The matching stone can be found with the orog first mate in area 2.)

If a character removes the *sending stone* from the wall, a miniature giant **space hamster** scuttles out of the hole in the base of the wall and looks rather put out. The **space hamster** looks remarkably like a normal hamster. It has the statistics of a **rat** but no attacks (and is worth 0 XP). It has made a nice lair for itself in the walls of the ship but poses no danger if it's disturbed. A character can befriend the hamster by offering it food.

#### 13d. Captain's Stateroom

>**Walls**. The resin walls are sculpted and painted to look like glossy black tentacles entwined around one another and the screaming elves in their grasp.
>
>**Easel and Paintings**. Resting on a wooden easel in the middle of the cabin is a half-finished canvas painting of a colorful alien landscape. Next to the easel, several paintbrushes and jars of paint lie on a small table. Five finished paintings of other alien landscapes are leaning against the back of the easel.
>
>**Chair**. A bloodstained wooden chair with iron wrist-clamps bolted to its armrests sits in a forward alcove. A pool of sticky blood covers the floor around it.
>
>**Secret Compartment**. A character who searches the cabin for secret doors and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a small hatch built into the floorboards. This hatch conceals a shallow compartment containing **Captain N'ghathrod**'s spellbook.
>

N'ghathrod straps captives to this chair before devouring their brains. A creature shackled to the chair can use an action to try to escape, doing so with a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check.

***Treasure.*** Before he was transformed into an illithid by the process known as ceremorphosis, **Captain N'ghathrod** was a spacefaring elf. Although it has no memories of its former life, the mind flayer retains its elven fondness for celestial beauty. The paintings, which illustrate worlds that N'ghathrod has visited, are worth 100 gp each.

N'ghathrod's spellbook is bound in leather, its contents written in a Braille-like script. The mind flayer uses its tentacles to read the script, which other creatures can decipher with a *comprehend languages* spell. The book contains all the spells N'ghathrod has prepared, plus *animate dead*, *Bigby's hand*, and *Evard's black tentacles*.

#### 13e. Starboard Crew Cabin

This cabin contains two sets of bunks stacked three tiers high.

#### 13f. Port Crew Quarters

This cabin is furnished like area 13e and also contains a dead orog lying face down on the floor. Examination of the corpse reveals that the orog's skull was cracked open and its brain sucked out. Lying at the orog's feet is a greataxe.

#### 13g. Bridge

The door to the bridge stands slightly ajar. N'ghathrod, the mind flayer captain, is here (see the "Captain N'ghathrod" sidebar). The features of the bridge are as follows:

>**Windows**. Two circular, 9-foot-diameter windows of bulging, transparent crystal rest in bronze fixtures.
>
>**Celestial Chart**. Painted on the sloped ceiling are familiar constellations and unfamiliar planets.
>
>**Grooves**. Grooves in the middle of the floor suggest that a piece of furniture once rested there.
>

Characters who examine the grooves and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check can ascertain that they're designed to secure a heavy chair or chair-shaped object to the floor. The grooves conform to the footprint of the ship's spelljamming helm, which can be found on *level 23*.

The chart on the ceiling has the sun at its center, with elongated rings showing the paths of the eight planets that orbit it: rocky Anadia; Coliar the gas giant; Toril and the small asteroid cluster orbiting it called the Tears of Selûne; the water worlds Karpri and Chandos; the noxious ringed planet Glyth; the asteroid cluster of Garden, which is held together by an enormous plant; and the wheel-shaped H'catha. Beyond the planets are the constellations of Realmspace, all visible in the night skies of Toril at various times of the year.

#### 13h. Oh Captain, My Captain!

The floor here is covered with shattered glass and brine, the remains of jars that once held pickled humanoid brains. The curved walls bear empty shelves where **Captain N'ghathrod** stored its emergency food reserves. The mind flayer was forced to eat the pickled brains after its crew fled and now hungers for fresh food.