# 13. The Metal Mage

This 20-foot-high room contains an iron golem that has a head shaped like a metal skull. It stands between three iron-plated stone pillars that hum with magical power. With the aid of these pillars, **Trobriand** recently transferred his spirit into the golem.

**Trobriand** is looking forward to testing his new body and attacks intruders on sight, showing no mercy.

#### Trobriand

While his spirit is bound within the golem, **Trobriand** has a challenge rating of 22 (41,000 XP) and the statistics of an **iron golem**, with these changes:

- **Trobriand** has an Intelligence of 20.
- He has the Spellcasting trait described below.

***Spellcasting.*** **Trobriand** is an 18th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following wizard spells prepared:

- Cantrips (at will): *fire bolt*, *mage hand*, *prestidigitation*
- 1st level (4 slots): *detect magic*, *magic missile*, *shield*
- 2nd level (3 slots): *blur*, *detect thoughts*, *misty step*, *shatter*
- 3rd level (3 slots): *counterspell*, *dispel magic*, *fireball*, *haste*
- 4th level (3 slots): *blight*, *greater invisibility*
- 5th level (3 slots): *animate objects*, *Bigby's hand*, *scrying*
- 6th level (1 slot): *chain lightning*, *globe of invulnerability*
- 7th level (1 slot): *finger of death*, *forcecage*
- 8th level (1 slot): *incendiary cloud*, *power word stun*
- 9th level (1 slot): *power word kill*

Deactivating or destroying one or more of the pillars, destroying the golem, or forcing the golem out of the room causes **Trobriand**'s spirit to vacate the golem and attempt to reunite with his normal body, which is hidden in area 11c. If the characters have not destroyed his body, **Trobriand**'s spirit returns to it immediately, and he awakens in area 11c as an **archmage** with the same spell list as in his golem form and the same spell slots remaining as he had when he left his golem body. His primary goal thereafter is to destroy the characters for meddling in his affairs.

If the golem in this room has not been destroyed when **Trobriand**'s spirit leaves it, the golem becomes an ordinary **iron golem** under the Metal Mage's command and attacks intruders on sight.

If the characters have already destroyed **Trobriand**'s body in area 11c, and then they deactivate or destroy at least one of the pillars in this room, **Trobriand**'s spirit is forced to leave the golem but has nowhere to go, effectively killing him.

#### Iron-Plated Pillars

A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of transmutation magic radiating from each humming pillar. A character who examines the pillars notices tiny runes etched into them. With a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check, a character can ascertain that the pillars are empowering the golem in some way. A successful *dispel magic* cast on a pillar (DC 19) deactivates it for 1 minute.

Each pillar is a Huge object with AC 17, a damage threshold of 10, 80 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.