# 13. Runestone Caverns

An immense central cavern (area 13a) has several smaller caverns extending off it (areas 13b through area 13f). A howling wind echoes throughout this area, and its source can be traced to a broad chasm (area 13g).

#### 13a. Main Cavern

Characters see a bright blue-white light ahead as they approach this cavern. The cave's features are as follows:

>**Runestone**. The cavern is lit by a 10-foot-diameter circular lozenge of crystal (the Runestone) embedded at the peak of a 120-foot-tall stalagmite.
>
>**Stalactites**. The cavern walls taper inward as they rise, becoming a curved, 200-foot-high ceiling dotted with stalactites 10 to 15 feet long. A 60-foot-long stalactite hangs directly above the stalagmite tower, its tip 10 feet above the brightly glowing Runestone.
>
>**Stalagmites**. The cavern floor is level and dotted with stalagmites 10 to 15 feet high.
>

Each time the characters visit this area, there is a 25 percent chance that Halaster links to the Runestone and uses it to spy on the main cavern. If he sees the characters and has any reason to want them dead, Halaster casts spells with a suitably long range at them through the Runestone, including *Bigby's hand*, *chain lightning*, *fireball*, and *meteor swarm*, as the opportunity presents itself. See area 14 for information on the Runestone.

#### 13b. Glaring Gargoyles

This side cavern has an uneven floor and ceiling 50 feet high and is adorned with a scattering of stalagmites and stalactites. Three **gargoyles** perch atop 10-foot-high stalagmites. These servants of Halaster watch and listen to the Runestone, waiting for new commands from their lord and master. The gargoyles attack any group of creatures they outnumber, but they avoid the Stonecloaks.

#### 13c. Moldy Cave

Water drips from the ceiling onto a floor carpeted in thick gray mold. The mold is edible but not nutritious.

#### 13d. Rotting Xorn Carcass

Rats and vermin nibble away at the rotting carcass of a xorn that lies at the back of this cave. Seven days ago, the xorn ran afoul of the golem in area 2 and was mortally wounded. It retreated to this cavern and died here.

***Treasure.*** Cutting open the xorn's carcass reveals an undigested *ring of x-ray vision* and a lumpy, half-digested topaz (50 gp).

#### 13e. Old Campsite

A ring of fire-scarred stones near the north wall of this 10-foot-high cave marks a long-abandoned campsite. Someone has used a knife to scratch the following warning, in Dwarvish, into the east wall: "The Mad Mage watches us. The Runestone is his eye!"

#### 13f. Halaster's Head

Lying on the floor of this otherwise empty 10-foot-high cave is an oversized stone head resembling the head of **Halaster Blackcloak**. The stone head once belonged to a **Stonecloak** that was cannibalized by the renegade golem in area 2.

#### 13g. Gusting Chasm

A howling, 60-mile-per-hour wind blows up and out of this 300-foot-deep chasm. A magical effect created by Halaster, the wind is strong enough in the immediate vicinity of the chasm to snuff out torches and other open flames of a nonmagical nature.

The chasm has abundant handholds and is easily climbed. Characters who descend to the floor find it jagged, uneven, and littered with the broken pieces of stone golems (tossed into the chasm by the **mad golem** in area 2), four dead gargoyles in pieces, and the bones of a dwarf (a miner who slipped and fell into the chasm over a century ago). The miner's pick lies near the bones.