# 13. Grand Vestibule

>**Blood**. Blood leaks down the walls and across the decor of this once grand hall.
>
>**Pillars**. Four stone pillars buttress the 30-foot-high vaulted ceiling. The middle third of each pillar is carved to look like a scowling dwarf with bulging muscles that supports the column's upper third on its broad shoulders. Blue sapphires glitter in the dwarves' eyes.
>
>**Double Door**. The doors in the east wall stand 18 feet high, a carving of a mighty waterfall spanning their surfaces. Mithral inlays make the carved falls look like they are running with molten metal.
>
>**Curtain**. A 40-foot-long, 20-foot-high curtain of black dragon scales hangs from an iron rod bolted to the west wall. (The scales have become brittle with age and are not valuable.)
>
>**Hanging Horn**. Suspended from the ceiling by iron chains is a 20-foot-long iron horn with etched Dwarvish runes coiling around it.
>

The giant horn weighs 2 tons. It dangles 20 feet above the floor on three thick, 5-foot-long iron chains. The Melairkyn dwarves forged the horn and placed it here to guard the treasure in this hall (see "Treasure" below). A *detect magic* spell or similar magic reveals an aura of conjuration magic around the horn. A character who understands Dwarvish can translate the horn's runes, not all of which are visible from the floor. The runes visible from the floor read, "If you blind us." A character must fly up to the horn or climb above it to read the message in its entirety, which is "If you blind us, shall we not revenge?"

Removing one or more gemstones from the pillars causes the horn to magically emit a somber tone. As the horn sounds, the spirits of thirteen dwarf warriors appear in unoccupied spaces throughout the hall and attack all other creatures in the area. These unaligned spirits use the **champion** statistics (see *appendix A*), except that they wield greataxes instead of greatswords. They understand Dwarvish but can't speak, and they can't leave the hall. They disappear after 1 hour or when they drop to 0 hit points. Once the horn has sounded, it can't sound again until 7 days have passed. If no gemstones remain in the pillars when this time elapses, the horn becomes nonmagical and can no longer summon dwarven spirits. Removing the instrument from the hall also renders it nonmagical.

#### Treasure

Eight blue star sapphires (1,000 gp each) are embedded in the eyes of the dwarf carvings—two gemstones per pillar. Each gem is set 18 feet above the floor and can be pried out with a dagger or similar tool.