# 14. The Runestone

The tip of the giant stalagmite at the center of area 13a is pierced by a large hole. Set within this hole is a 10-foot-diameter, circular lozenge of translucent white crystal called the Runestone. The crystal radiates bright blue-white light in a 120-foot radius and dim light for an additional 120 feet. Halaster's red-glowing rune floats inside it.

The Runestone is a Large object with AC 10; 90 hit points; immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren't adamantine; and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Provided it has at least 1 hit point, the crystal can magically repair itself, regaining 10 (3d6) hit points each hour.

As an action, Halaster can establish a magical link with the Runestone from anywhere inside Undermountain, provided the crystal hasn't been destroyed. This link allows him to see, speak, and cast spells through the Runestone as though he were standing in its space. Spells he casts through the Runestone appear to originate from the rune lodged inside it. Halaster can end the link at any time (no action required).

While Halaster is linked to the Runestone, its light changes from blue-white to red-orange, and Halaster's rune turns from bright red to fluorescent purple. The brightness and extent of the light doesn't change.

#### Runestone Fragments

The surface of the Runestone is rough and splintered. Every 12 hours, a pebble-sized fragment of the Runestone breaks off and falls to the cavern floor, though the Runestone shows no signs of ever being diminished by shedding these fragments. A broken-off fragment is magical but no longer glows. It comes to rest 1d4 × 10 feet from the base of the stalagmite.

**Ezzat**'s pseudodragon companion, Ipses, gathers up Runestone fragments as it hunts for food around the stalagmite, but a few occasionally escape its notice. A character who examines the cavern floor around the spire with a *detect magic* spell finds 1d4 fragments. Without such magical aid, a character can find one fragment with a 1-hour search and a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check.

Halaster has discovered a process for implanting Runestone fragments in constructs to imbue them with more intelligence and personality. These fragments might also have other magical properties, at your discretion.

Delivering a Runestone fragment to Jalester Silvermane in Waterdeep completes a quest (see "Retrieve a Runestone Fragment").