# 14. Sepulchers

This corner of the dungeon holds a pair of dusty crypts.

#### 14a. Southern Crypt

The door to this room is engraved with a large rune, while the door frame is carved with leering dwarven skulls. A character who understands Dwarvish recognizes the rune on the door as a dwarven symbol of death (identical to the one in area 27).

Behind the door is a dusty, 10-foot-high crypt that contains the following features:

>**Sarcophagi**. Three open stone sarcophagi rest in the middle of the crypt, their lids lying in pieces on the floor.
>
>**Skeletons**. Piled against the back wall are scores of moldering dwarf skeletons (inanimate and harmless).
>

A pair of drow mages and siblings named Elvilac and Lorlynn searched and plundered the sarcophagi. Each sarcophagus rests atop a 1-foot-tall stone bier and is 7 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 3 feet tall. The contents of the sarcophagi are as follows:

- The northern sarcophagus contains the moldy bones of a dwarf with corroded bits of armor clinging to it. Its skull is hidden inside a rusty bucket helm.
- The middle sarcophagus is empty, but a body-shaped impression in the dust suggests that someone rested here recently. (Elvilac, the dead drow in area 11, rested here while he meditated.)
- The southern sarcophagus contains the bones and tattered robe of a long-dead mind flayer.

#### 14b. Northern Crypt

The door to this room is identical to the one guarding area 14a, except for a triangular hole at the bottom. Behind the door is a dusty, 10-foot-high crypt containing the following features:

>**Skeletons and Sarcophagi**. Twelve dwarf **skeletons** mill aimlessly around three unmarked stone sarcophagi in the middle of this crypt.
>
>**Lorlynn**. The southern sarcophagus is missing its lid. A female **drow mage** named Lorlynn Zmirth rests inside. She sits up when intruders enter the crypt.
>

Lorlynn came to Undermountain with her twin brother Elvilac in hopes of finding useful spellbooks and magic. Netherskull has chosen to leave her alone for the time being. Her brother wasn't so fortunate (see area 11). Lorlynn doesn't know he's dead and is expecting him to return any moment, but news of his death doesn't upset her. So gloomy a creature was he that if Lorlynn can recover and animate his corpse, it will be as though he never died.

Lorlynn wears a tattered gray spider silk robe and cowl that, coupled with her gaunt features, makes her appear distinctly banshee-like. She abhors the company of other humanoids except her brother. She is in a relaxing trance when the characters first arrive. Normally indifferent toward adventurers, she turns hostile if she finds that the characters have her brother's spellbook and refuse to surrender it to her. If her skeletons are turned or destroyed and she is reduced to half her hit points or fewer, Lorlynn offers information in exchange for her life. She knows one random Undermountain secret, determined by drawing a card from the Secrets Deck (see *appendix C*). She also knows how to deactivate the pit traps and teleport traps on this level using the wheel in area 12, but knows nothing of the living unseen servant that Halaster recently put there.

Each sarcophagus sits atop a 1-foot-tall stone bier and is 7 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 3 feet tall. A character with a Strength score of 15 or higher can push off the lid of a sarcophagus easily. The contents of each sarcophagus are described below:

- The northern sarcophagus has a gaping crack in one of its sides, and four harmless rats have used this crack to creep inside and make a nest among the moldering bones of a sahuagin (placed here by Halaster to confound grave robbers). Lifting the lid or tapping on the sarcophagus causes 1d4 rats to emerge in a panic. The detritus in the nest includes two random trinkets, determined by rolling on the *Trinkets* table in chapter 5 of the *Player's Handbook*.
- The middle sarcophagus is full of cobwebs, hidden under which is a right-handed iron gauntlet with six fingers. Characters can use the gauntlet to activate the gate in area 24c.
- The southern sarcophagus (Lorlynn's bed) has a secret compartment in the bottom that can be found with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Its contents are described in "Treasure" below.

***Treasure.*** Lorlynn wears a black gold ring set with bloodstones (250 gp) on the index finger of her right hand and carries a bone wand (her arcane focus), a pouch containing two bone dice (1 gp each), and a bloodstained sackcloth doll with two jet eyes (100 gp per eye).

The secret compartment in Lorlynn's sarcophagus holds her spellbook, which has covers made of stitched elf flesh. It contains all the spells she has prepared plus *animate dead*, *arcane eye*, and *wall of stone*.