# 14. Shrine of Laduguer

As a gesture of goodwill toward its new duergar allies, **Fazrian** had this waiting chamber converted into a shrine of Laduguer, the duergar god of labor and slavery. Presiding over the shrine are two **arcanaloths** named Aximus and Exekarus. These fiends use *alter self* spells to appear as duergar priests. Valtagar and the duergar under his command avoid the shrine, finding the yugoloths' presence insulting and their motives suspicious.

The room has a flat, 10-foot-high ceiling. Although blood often flows from gaps between the room's wall tiles (see "Regional Effects"), Aximus and Exekarus regularly use *prestidigitation* cantrips to clean it away. The room's other contents are as follows:

>**Haze**. A thin, smoky haze fills the room. (The haze doesn't obscure the room's other features.)
>
>**Braziers**. Alcoves in the north wall contain two braziers fashioned from melted-down iron armor and weapons. Each is alight with burning coals that shed bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
>
>**Altar and Shield**. Between the alcoves, an iron altar traced with silver and shaped like a giant anvil rests beneath a round, 10-foot-diameter iron shield mounted on the north wall. The shield bears the symbol of a broken arrow with a jagged arrowhead. Standing before the altar are a pair of duergar (Aximus and Exekarus) in drab robes.
>

To prepare for their roles, the arcanaloths learned everything they could about Laduguer's principles of conduct. To their surprise, Aximus and Exekarus found these principles compelling. Some of the arcanaloths' favorite maxims include:

- "No matter how much wealth and power you have, it's never enough."
- "The fight never ends. Take what you deserve and destroy all who stand in your way."
- "Let no emotion rule you. Abandon joy, love, pride, anger, and ambition, for they are signs of weakness. Know your role and perform it to the best of your ability."

Laduguer's dogma guides Aximus and Exekarus as much as it does any duergar, and the yugoloths try to impose these principles on all who claim to serve **Fazrian**. If the characters haven't encountered **Fazrian**, Aximus and Exekarus insist on taking them to meet the planetar, whom they admire. Those who refuse to accompany the arcanaloths are left behind as Aximus and Exekarus proceed to area 23b to inform **Fazrian** that visitors have arrived. Obedience to **Fazrian** is all that matters to Aximus and Exekarus—at least until someone convinces the arcanaloths to switch allegiances.

The arcanaloths' attitude toward the characters is indifferent at the start, though the fiends quickly turn hostile if attacked. The arcanaloths' attitude changes to friendly if the characters appeal to their love of magic by giving them a single very rare magic item, multiple rare magic items, or a spellbook containing at least one spell of 6th level or higher. Aximus and Exekarus make their love of all things magical known to anyone that seeks their assistance. If their attitude toward the characters is changed in this way, the arcanaloths repay the party's kindness any way they can—short of placing themselves in harm's way. Their helpfulness doesn't last long, however. After 24 hours, the arcanaloths' attitude toward the party becomes indifferent once more, and further bribes are needed to regain their assistance.

The large iron shield hanging on the wall weighs 750 pounds and bears the broken arrow symbol of Laduguer. Any duergar recognizes the symbol right away, while non-duergar recognize it with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Religion) check. Any humanoid that touches the shield becomes cursed with the flaw: "I take no joy or pleasure in anything." This flaw supersedes any opposing flaw. Casting a *remove curse* spell or similar magic on the creature ends the curse on it.

#### Treasure

Aximus and Exekarus hide their spellbooks in the folds of their robes. Each book contains all the spells the arcanaloths have prepared, plus *eyebite*, *forcecage*, and *incendiary cloud*.