# 15. Outer Door and Foyer

The tower entrance is on the eastern side of the stalagmite and offers the only access to **Ezzat**'s lair.

#### Outer Door

>**Bas-Relief**. The outward-facing side of the door bears a bas-relief sculpture of a humanoid skull with a black sapphire embedded in each eye socket.
>
>**Words of Unwelcome**. Carved into the frame above the door are the words "GO AWAY!" written in Common.
>
>**Alarm**. An *alarm* spell silently warns **Ezzat** if any other creature opens the door.
>

A *detect magic* spell reveals a powerful aura of abjuration magic around each sapphire. Close examination reveals the image of a tiny black spider etched into each one. Two drow **vampires** are trapped in the gemstones and are magically released the first time a creature other than **Ezzat** opens the door or pries either gemstone out. Each vampire initially appears as a cloud of mist, then spends its first turn in combat reverting to its true form. The vampires' names are Sabatene Xilzzrin and Tebran Madannith. Their houses were destroyed long ago. They have spent the last fifty years imprisoned by **Ezzat**, thirsting for blood.

Neither Sabatene nor Tebran can enter the stalagmite without **Ezzat**'s invitation, since the tower is his residence. Far removed from their resting places, they have nowhere to go if their physical forms are destroyed. A drow vampire reduced to 72 hit points or fewer attempts to flee rather than risk destruction. Although they have common enemies and similar needs, the two vampires are allies only by circumstance and care nothing for each other.

***Treasure.*** The black sapphires (500 gp each) can be pried out of the door with a dagger or similar tool.

#### Foyer

A wooden coat rack stands in the north corner of this otherwise empty room.