# 15. Ruined Armory

>**Chasm**. The air is hot and dry. A crumbling ledge overlooks a great chasm brightly lit by a bubbling pool of lava 30 feet below. Visible from this location is a spectral bridge that spans the chasm (see area 16).
>
>**Debris**. What's left of the floor is strewn with broken, corroded fragments of dwarf-sized chain mail and plate armor.
>
>**Arch**. Embedded in the middle of the south wall is a stone arch made up of one hundred stone jigsaw pieces. This arch is one of Halaster's magic gates (see "Gates").
>

#### Arch Gate to Level 20

Each of the arch's one hundred jigsaw pieces weighs 10 pounds. The rules of this gate are as follows:

- Only one piece of the arch can be removed at any given time. A *detect magic* spell reveals that one of the pieces (determined randomly) is magical. When that piece is removed from the arch, it disappears, and the gate opens for 1 minute. When the gate closes, the piece removed from the arch magically reappears in its proper place, and a different piece becomes magical and must be removed to reopen the gate.
- If a wrong piece is removed from the arch, an **adult white dragon** magically appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the arch and attacks any creature it can see. The dragon disappears when it is slain or after 1 minute. When the dragon disappears, the piece that was removed from the arch magically reappears in its previous place.
- Characters must be at least 16th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 9b on level 20, in the closest unoccupied space next to the identical gate located there.