# 15. Mecha-Halaster

>**Pillar Sconces**. This hall has a 150-foot-high arched ceiling buttressed by stone pillars that have sconces protruding from them at 10-foot intervals. *Continual flame* spells cast on the sconces illuminate the hall.
>
>**Giant Construct**. In the middle of the room, lying on its back on the stone-tiled floor, is a 100-foot-tall figure made of molded iron, its feet pointing toward the double door to the south. The construct is missing its head, and there are gaps in its outer shell through which the construct's inner supports and mechanisms can be glimpsed.
>
>**Emberosa**. This female **fire giant** has 221 hit points and the innate magical ability to hurl fire at will (as the fire giant's Rock attack option, except it deals fire damage). She stands on the construct's chest, 20 feet above the floor. Flitting around her are her sidekicks, three **smoke mephits**.
>
>**Pit**. At the north end of the room is a 20-foot-deep pit with a dusty stone sarcophagus at the bottom.
>

**Emberosa** is inspecting the work of her fellow fire giants and doesn't want to be disturbed. To say she has a temper would be an understatement. If intruders enter the hall, she tries to make quick work of them while her mephits taunt the new arrivals mercilessly. A battle here brings reinforcements rapidly from areas 16 and 18.

The construct is made of recast bits of scrap iron plundered from **Trobriand**'s Graveyard (*level 13*). When complete, the construct will be the spitting image of **Halaster Blackcloak** himself—100 feet tall and made of iron. When the time comes to conquer Waterdeep, the Mad Mage plans to use Mecha-Halaster to destroy the city's walking statues. Without its head and the immense magic needed to power it, the iron construct is nothing more than a giant boondoggle. In its current state, it is considered an inanimate object, not a creature. Medium or smaller creatures that squeeze inside it can use the outer shell and inner mechanisms as cover. Bigger creatures can't fit inside the construct.

#### Pit and Sarcophagus

A character needs climbing gear or magic to scale the walls of the pit, which are made of smooth stone.

The sarcophagus at the bottom of the pit has a bas-relief of a laughing dwarf carved into its lid, the rim of which bears the following inscription in Dwarvish: "Here lies Lulz Klangphorn, trapsmith. He is survived by his work." The lid can be pushed aside with a singular or combined Strength of 18. The sarcophagus contains nothing but dust, bones, and Lulz's bronzed skull.

Removing Lulz's skull from the sarcophagus causes mechanisms in the surrounding walls to grind and clank loudly, as though a complex trap has been set in motion. The effect, though harmless, is meant to frighten tomb robbers. After 1 minute, the noise stops.