# 15. Valtagar's Quarters

The walls and floor of this 15-foot-high chamber are covered with interlocking stone tiles. The room contains the following:

>**Valtagar**. When the characters first arrive, **Valtagar Steelshadow** (see below) is reading his spellbook—a bound stack of mithral plates. The book rests atop a stout, stone lectern in the middle of the room.
>
>**Golem**. Standing in the south corner is an **iron golem** that looks like a 10-foot-tall duergar. The golem understands Dwarvish and obeys Valtagar's commands.
>
>**Masks**. Dozens of iron masks hang from hooks on the southeast wall (see "Iron Masks" below).
>
>**Other Furnishings**. Against the northwest wall stands a low double bed. In the middle of the room, a locked iron strongbox rests atop a low marble table flanked by two stone chairs.
>

#### Valtagar Steelshadow

Valtagar wears a black robe with a cowl that obscures his face. Suspicious and volatile, he is a duergar **archmage**, with these changes:

- Valtagar is lawful evil.
- He has the *Otiluke's resilient sphere* spell prepared instead of *banishment*.
- He has these racial traits: He speaks Common, Dwarvish, Infernal, Terran, Troglodyte, and Undercommon. His walking speed is 25 feet, and he has darkvision out to 120 feet. He has advantage on saving throws against poison and resistance to poison damage. He gains the Enlarge and Invisibility action options described below.

***Enlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).*** For 1 minute, Valtagar magically increases in size. While enlarged, Valtagar is Large, doubles his damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks, and makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If Valtagar lacks the space to become Large, he attains the maximum size possible in the space available.

***Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).*** Valtagar magically turns invisible for up to 1 hour or until he attacks, he casts a spell, he uses his Enlarge, or his concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment he wears or carries is invisible with him.

Archmages are exceedingly rare in duergar society, and Valtagar's gift for wizardry never sat well with the clans of Gracklstugh. He doesn't put himself in harm's way unless he has a clear tactical edge. If the characters threaten him after they gain entry to his quarters, he orders his golem to attack while he grabs his spellbook off the lectern, casts *teleport*, and joins his wife in area 18d.

Valtagar has faced adventurers before and has a healthy fear of them. If the characters are willing to engage in civil discourse, he tries to hire them to slay **Fazrian**. The patience of his duergar followers is wearing thin, and he loses nothing by setting the adventurers loose against the planetar. In exchange, Valtagar guarantees safe passage through his domain whenever they need it and promises to tell them the location of a secret staircase that descends to the next level of Undermountain (see area 19a). To establish trust, he tells them about the secret vault hidden behind **Fazrian**'s throne (see area 24) and shares what he knows about **Fazrian** and its allies:

- A powerful cleric summoned a celestial being of immense power named **Fazrian**, then directed it to slay a host of monsters that once haunted the Deep Mines.
- That act of slaughter corrupted **Fazrian**. After slaying many monsters, it decapitated the cleric and installed itself as lord of the Deep Mines. **Fazrian** rarely leaves its throne hall and keeps the cleric's headless corpse as a memento.
- **Fazrian** takes advice from four yugoloths. These fiends arrived shortly after **Fazrian**'s madness took hold. Aximus and Exekarus can be found in the nearby shrine of Laduguer (area 14). Raxxus is at **Fazrian**'s side (area 23b). Valtagar says that Xindulus roams where it will, choosing not to reveal that the ultroloth guards the secret staircase down to the next level of Undermountain (area 19a).

#### Iron Masks

The iron masks are visors taken from the helmets of duergar warriors who followed Valtagar throughout his exile, only to fall in battle. Valtagar displays them not for sentimental reasons, but to reinforce his determination to return home.

#### Treasure

The mithral spellbook on the lectern weighs 30 pounds. It contains all the spells Valtagar has prepared. Its cover is embossed with a broken arrow, the symbol of Laduguer.

The iron strongbox contains 600 pp. Minted in Gracklstugh, these coins bear the stern visage of Deepking Horgar Steelshadow V on one side, the mind flayer skull symbol of Deep Duerra (the duergar god of conquest and psionics) on the other, and a Dwarvish motto on the rim that translates as "As low as we can go."