# 15. Shattered Throne

>**Ceiling**. The vaulted ceiling soars to a height of 30 feet and is braced by ornate, crumbling stone arches.
>
>**Fog**. The room is lightly obscured by fog.
>
>**Vision and Crumbled Throne**. Any character who crosses the chamber's midpoint experiences one of the shadow dragon's fleeting visions and notices a pile of rubble at the end of the hall: the shattered remains of a stone throne.
>

#### Dragon's Vision

In this vision, the character is standing next to a skeletal warrior with red pinpricks of light in his eye sockets (Lord Vanrak Moonstar). Slumped in a stone throne, he says, "Is this to be the legacy of Vanrak Moonstar? A shadow king damned to rule these moonless halls, fending off assassins, mad wizards, and ghosts of the ancient dead? Is this all that Shar has to offer? I have drunk my fill of darkness and loss, old friend." With that, the vision ends.

#### Vanrak's Throne

Fog swirls around the pile of shattered stone near the south wall that was once Vanrak's throne. If anyone approaches within 10 feet of the rubble, a smoky projection of **Umbraxakar** rises from the shattered throne and tries to frighten away interlopers, though it can do no harm. It fades away if the rubble is disturbed.

***Treasure.*** Buried under the rubble is Vanrak Moonstar's ancient *mithral armor* (chain shirt), which has the additional property of granting its wearer darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If a character dons this armor in Vanrakdoom, two **shadow assassins** (see *appendix A*) materialize nearby and attack the character.