# 16. Fire and Iron

The duergar use the forges in areas 16a and area 16b to mold iron into 10-pound bars, which are stored in area 16c. Area 16d is an old overseer's office that the duergar have turned into a barracks. A total of fifteen duergar work and sleep in these areas.

The floors and walls are covered with interlocking, blood-streaked stone tiles. The ceiling is 10 feet high throughout.

#### 16a. Northern Smelter

>**Smoke and Heat**. Smoke fills this room, making the area lightly obscured. The temperature inside the room is a searing 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
>
>**Forge**. Roaring flames fill a stone forge that protrudes from the north wall.
>
>**Smiths**. Two sweaty, unarmored **duergar** are working the forge, smelting iron. Both wear tinted goggles and thick gloves.
>
>**Buckets**. Piled around the forge are buckets of iron ore.
>

The duergar are a male named Brok and a female named Fumira. Brok uses long-handled iron tongs to place chunks of iron ore in the forge. Once the iron melts, Fumira scoops out the molten iron with a long-handled ladle and pours it into two iron molds, which Brok clamps shut. They then take the clamped molds to area 16c to cool. Afterward, they return to the forge with two empty molds and repeat the process.

Without their armor, Brok and Fumira have AC 10. They keep their war picks and javelins close by, but fight only in self-defense. If they detect intruders, they stop working and grouchily offer to escort the new arrivals to Rojkarn Ironhead, the captain of the guard (area 6c)—leading the party through areas area 16c, area 6b, and area 6a. The duergar have nothing much to say to visitors, preferring to let Rojkarn answer any questions they might have.

If a fight breaks out, the duergar in areas 16b and 16d quickly join the battle. (The duergar in area area 16c is deaf.)

The forge puts out tremendous heat thanks to a **fire elemental** magically trapped inside it. Runes carved on the inside walls of the forge prevent the elemental from escaping or harming anyone outside the forge. Destroying the forge releases the elemental, whereupon it attacks everyone in sight. The forge has AC 17, 80 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.

#### 16b. Southern Smelter

This room is identical to area 16a except that the forge protrudes from the south wall, and the two unarmored **duergar** working here are a pair of females named Krinxa and Wolthra.

#### 16c. Iron Stockpile

>**Duergar**. In the north half of the room, an elderly male **duergar** carrying an iron cane and an ear horn sits in a stone rocking chair next to a pile of iron molds and clamps.
>
>**Iron Bars**. The south half of the room contains four uneven stacks of iron bars, each stack nearly filling a 6-foot cube.
>

Old age has rendered the duergar smith, Ghorso, deaf and nearly immobile. His walking speed is 10 feet with the cane or 5 feet without it. Despite his age, he is fully armed and armored. He would rather die in combat than succumb to the ravages of age, but he fights only in self-defense. If the characters try to talk to him, he plays dumb and is not the least bit helpful. A *lesser restoration* spell or similar magic can restore Ghorso's hearing, for which he is not the least bit grateful. "Now I can hear every wretched noise in this gods-forsaken place!" he says with a sneer.

Clamped iron molds from areas 16a and area 16b are brought here to cool. Once they reach room temperature (50 degrees Fahrenheit), Ghorso unclamps the molds, opens them, pries out the hardened iron ingots, and stacks them atop the existing piles. It's a tedious, thankless job.

***Treasure.*** Stockpiled here are 12,800 iron bars, each worth 1 gp and weighing 10 pounds.

#### 16d. Barracks

This room contains two dozen iron cots arranged haphazardly in the middle of the space. Ten **duergar**, five males and five females, are asleep here at any given time, snoring loudly. The males are named Bulborm, Daarsh, Krod, Mranhaim, and Muzdrok. The females are named Azgra, Narlith, Roxinda, Sorka, and Svilla.

The duergar sleep in their armor and keep their weapons within reach. They awaken to sounds of combat in areas 16a or area 16b. A creature that succeeds on a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) check can sneak about the room without waking the duergar.