# 16. Arcane Sanctum

Three invisible **will-o'-wisps** linger in this area in case Vertrand or Berlain require their services.

#### 16a. Burned Library

Berlain (see area 18b) lost her temper here a tenday ago and used multiple *fireball* spells to destroy the room's contents.

>**Burned Shelves and Racks**. The walls are lined with burned bookshelves and scroll racks.
>
>**Charred Furnishings**. The charred remains of three padded chairs and three coffee tables lie atop badly burned rugs in the middle of the floor.
>

#### 16b. Laboratory

A workbench along the west wall of this area is covered with tools, components, and magical apparatus.

***Treasure.*** The bench holds a set of *alchemist's supplies*, a *poisoner's kit*, a *healer's kit*, and an unlit lantern filled with oil. A recently brewed *potion of invisibility* rests among other vials that contain mundane liquids.

#### 16c. Clean Room

>**Antimagic**. All magic is suppressed here, as if by an *antimagic field* spell.
>
>**Tapestry**. A tapestry on the south wall depicts a landscape of trees made of tentacles, and floating islands of rock covered with drooling mouths and bloodshot eyeballs (see "Treasure" below).
>

This room is used to rid objects and creatures of undesirable magical energy that might destabilize a sensitive experiment. In addition to the antimagic effect always active in the room, any creature that passes through this area has any magic items it carries and any magical effects active on it suppressed for 1d4 minutes after it exits. *Detect magic* cast from outside the room does not detect the antimagic field.

***Treasure.*** The tapestry weighs 30 pounds and is worth 250 gp (assuming the characters can find a buyer who appreciates its disturbing, otherworldly imagery).