# 16. Animated Staff

>**Light**. Wax candles in stone holders light the room.
>
>**Furnishings**. In the middle of the room, a wooden chair faces a small wooden table upon which rests a game board topped with painted figurines.
>
>**Staff**. Floating next to the table is a 5-foot-long staff made of chiseled ice.
>

**Ezzat** animated a *staff of frost* and imbued it with sentience. Because of the alterations made to it, the staff is a creature and no longer usable as a magic item.

The animated staff is a Medium construct with AC 17, 40 hit points, resistance to cold damage, immunity to poison damage, a flying speed of 30 feet, and the ability to hover. It has blindsight out to a range of 60 feet and is blind beyond this radius. The staff's alignment is neutral evil. It can speak and understand Common. It has the following ability scores: Strength 12, Dexterity 12, Constitution 10, Intelligence 18, Wisdom 14, Charisma 10. Reducing the staff to 0 hit points destroys it.

The staff is friendly toward **Ezzat** and Ipses (the lich's pseudodragon), and hostile toward all other creatures. It has no concern for its own well-being and fights without mercy. **Ezzat** calls off the staff if its destruction seems likely, or if he has cause to parley with intruders.

The staff can use its action to make a melee weapon attack against a creature within 5 feet of it: +5 to hit; 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage plus 1 cold damage on a hit.

The staff has 10 charges. As an action, it can expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells (save DC 12): *cone of cold* (5 charges), *fog cloud* (1 charge), *ice storm* (4 charges), or *wall of ice* (4 charges). It regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If the staff expends its last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff turns to water and is destroyed.

A creature can grab the staff out of the air with a successful grapple check against the staff, and grappling the staff does not reduce the creature's speed. Any creature that successfully grapples the staff must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or be charmed by the staff until the staff is no longer in its grasp. While the creature is charmed, the staff can issue commands to it, which the creature does its best to obey. The creature can repeat the saving throw each time it takes damage, ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature that successfully resists the staff's control can't be charmed by it for 24 hours.

A creature holding the staff that isn't charmed by it can use an action to attempt to break the staff over a knee or against a solid surface, doing so with a successful DC 17 Strength (Athletics) check. Breaking the staff in this manner destroys it.

#### Treasure

The game on the table is called Coroniir, more commonly known as crowns. A game of strategy like chess, it enables two players to reenact a battle of the Crown Wars between two elven coronals. The set features a varnished oak game board and painted wooden figurines, weighs 5 pounds, and is worth 250 gp intact. The game board doubles as a carrying case for the figurines.

The position of the figurines on the board suggests that a game is in progress. The staff is waiting for **Ezzat** to return so that they can finish their game, which the lich is presently four moves away from winning. The staff moves its own pieces.