# 17. Vertrand's Room

>**Vertrand**. A bald, elderly man (**Vertrand Shadowdusk**) sits at a writing desk to the north, his back to the doorway.
>
>**Bed**. A simple bed stands against the south wall.
>
>**Tapestry**. A tapestry hanging on the east wall depicts noble members of the Shadowdusk family, their features distorted in unnatural and frightening ways. (Close examination reveals that the tapestry has been damaged by mold, rendering it worthless.)
>

Vertrand has smooth flesh where his eyes should be, for he surrendered his ocular orbits to a Far Realm entity in exchange for blindsight. Having foreseen the arrival of intruders, Vertrand has elected to face them alone. "Death owns us all," he says, before rising to his feet and unleashing his destructive spells.

Vertrand is a human **archmage**, with these changes:

- Vertrand is chaotic evil and speaks Abyssal, Common, Deep Speech, and Undercommon.
- He has blindsight out to a range of 60 feet, but is blind beyond this radius.
- He has the *confusion* spell prepared instead of *banishment*.

Vertrand's desk holds writing implements and handwritten notes written by Vertrand before he lost his eyes. The notes are difficult to follow and require a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to decipher. The notes detail Vertrand's research into magical vortices, and how to widen and destabilize planar portals.

***Treasure.*** Vertrand's spellbook is in the desk's top drawer. It contains all the spells he has prepared, plus *legend lore*, *conjure elemental*, and *planar binding*. The spells are written out using a form of Braille script.