# 17. Hammers and Anvils

This part of the dungeon rings with the sound of hammers on anvils. As one approaches the forges (areas 17c and area 17d), the sound grows louder and is joined by the roaring and crackling of flames. The light of the forges spills out into the main hallway and, when the door is open, into area 17e.

The duergar guards stationed in these areas have orders to escort visitors to **Valtagar Steelshadow** in area 15. If combat erupts in one room, the occupants of the other rooms join the fight. The duergar in areas 6a, area 6b, and area 6c hear echoes of the commotion and investigate, moving 50 feet per round. The inhabitants of other nearby areas go about their business.

The stone floors and walls are covered with bloody tiles. The ceiling is 10 feet high throughout.

#### 17a. Western Guard Post

Two male **duergar**, Kalrog and Klang, keep guard here. Klang is Kalrog's older brother, and the two are highly competitive.

#### 17b. Eastern Guard Post

Smoke and heat from the forges billow into this chamber, keeping it a sweltering 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Two **duergar**—a male named Prax and a female named Torga—mind this watch post, incidentally standing guard over a variety of extra supplies that are stored here. Driven into the south wall are twelve stone pegs on which soot-stained leather aprons and tinted goggles are hung.

#### 17c. Western Smithy

>**Smoke and Heat**. Smoke fills this room, rendering everything in the area lightly obscured. The temperature here is a scorching 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
>
>**Forge**. Crackling flames fill a stone forge that protrudes from the north wall. An iron anvil squats in front of the forge (which is similar to the one in area 16a).
>
>**Smiths**. Two sweaty, female **duergar** are fashioning an iron javelin. Both are unarmored, wearing leather aprons and gloves. One of them wears tinted iron goggles as she hammers the javelin into shape. The other has an iron eye patch and uses tongs to hold the metal in place as it's struck.
>
>**Iron**. The floor is covered with small stacks of iron bars and loose piles of scrap iron.
>

The duergar, Falthra and Helgra, craft weapons here. Years ago, a flying piece of molten iron put out Helgra's right eye; an iron eye patch bolted to her skull covers the empty eye socket.

Without their armor, Falthra and Helgra have AC 10. They keep their war picks and javelins close by, but fight only in self-defense. Visitors who trouble them are told to seek out Rojkarn Ironhead, the captain of the guard. "He wears a big helmet," one says with a sneer. The other can provide directions to area 6c, where Rojkarn's office is located.

***Treasure.*** Sixty iron bars are stacked on the floor. Each bar is worth 1 gp and weighs 10 pounds.

#### 17d. Eastern Smithy

This room is identical to area 17c except that the two unarmored **duergar** working here are males named Forn and Wulluk, and they're fashioning shields and bits of scale mail instead of weapons. Forn is fat and lazy, Wulluk old and cantankerous. They grate on each other's nerves and constantly put each other down. They otherwise behave similarly to the duergar in area 17c.

#### 17e. Armory

Stone pegs in the walls display six dwarf-sized suits of scale mail, ten helmets, ten shields, thirteen war picks, and thirty javelins, all fashioned from iron.

#### 17f. Equipment Storage

The walls of this 10-foot-high room are lined with low stone shelves that hold worn mining picks and hammers. Rusty iron buckets, helmets, and shovels hang from stone pegs above the shelves.