# 17. Lich's Study

**Ezzat** the **lich** spends much of his time in this dusty, cobweb-filled room, poring over books that claim to shed light on Halaster's mastery of Undermountain. The lich's neutral evil **pseudodragon** companion, Ipses, stays close to its master.

>**Light**. Dozens of wax candles light the room, perched atop candle holders or affixed to skulls, petrified rats, and other miscellaneous objects.
>
>**Books**. The room is cluttered with stacks of books, most of them caked with dust (see "Books" below).
>
>**Desk and Chair**. A path between the books leads from the door to an old desk and chair by the east wall.
>
>**Stairs**. A spiral staircase climbs to area 18.
>

If the characters discover the lich here, see the "Roleplaying **Ezzat**" sidebar for guidelines on determining his reaction. The characters gain no XP for defeating **Ezzat** unless they also destroy the lich's phylactery (located in area 23).

**Ezzat** has the *forcecage* spell prepared instead of *plane shift*, and he wears an *amulet of proof against detection and location* that conceals him from divination magic and scrying sensors.

**Ezzat**'s pseudodragon is selfish and doesn't like sharing its master with strangers. The lich lets the pseudodragon out of the tower once a day so that it can catch food and scour the cavern floor for Runestone fragments (see "Capturing Ipses").

**Ezzat** enjoys the pseudodragon's company but does not need its assistance in battle. If a fight breaks out, Ipses settles atop the lintel of the nearest door and tries to stay out of harm's way. It has little cause to fear for the destruction of its master as long as **Ezzat**'s phylactery remains secure in area 23. Ipses won't willingly betray **Ezzat** by divulging the phylactery's location.

> ##### Roleplaying Ezzat
>
>**Ezzat** was a mage who had an opportunity to become Halaster's apprentice. A good-aligned human priest discouraged him from pursuing that evil path. After his priest friend died of old age and **Ezzat** became a lich to avoid a similar fate, he became obsessed with finding a way not only to destroy Halaster but to gain control over Undermountain.
>
>**Ezzat** is a lich who speaks Common, Dwarvish, Draconic, Elvish, Sylvan, and Undercommon. He plans to destroy Halaster when he's good and ready. Until then, he'd rather not be disturbed. If the characters ask for help in destroying Halaster, the lich shares what he knows about the Mad Mage but declines to aid them in any other way. Assume that **Ezzat** knows all the information about Halaster given in *appendix A*, including the Mad Mage's lair actions and regional effects, but not his statistics.
>
>If the characters appear intent on destroying **Ezzat**, the lich accuses them of being the unwitting tools of the Mad Mage. He uses all the magic at his disposal to get rid of them. See areas 16 and area 17 for more information.
>

#### Books

**Ezzat** has amassed a large collection of books written by self-proclaimed experts on Undermountain. Most of the tomes are filled with information of questionable worth and accuracy. The lich has spent years separating truth from fiction, trying to learn how Halaster's command of the dungeon has gone unchallenged and how Undermountain changes to serve its master's whims.

***Ezzat's Journal.*** A book lies open on the desk, next to a quill and a jar of ink. This is **Ezzat**'s journal, a distillation of the lore found in his other books. Any character who reads the journal learns Undermountain's history (see "Dungeon History") as well as the ways in which the dungeon affects magic (see "Alterations to Magic"). **Ezzat**'s advanced understanding of this lore is what enabled him to create such potent magical defenses around his tower.

In later entries, **Ezzat** postulates that Jhesiyra Kestellharp, one of Halaster's original seven apprentices, is the key to seizing control of Undermountain (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The lich describes how Jhesiyra was imprisoned by her master, only to escape during the Spellplague. She then used a *wish* spell to imbue herself into the stones of Undermountain and hide from Halaster.

**Ezzat** believes that Jhesiyra can affect Undermountain in ways that even Halaster cannot, and the lich longs to find some means to contact her. In the journal's final entry, he writes of wanting to use *wish*—a spell he does not yet know—to forge an alliance with Jhesiyra, defeat Halaster, and end the Mad Mage's reign in Undermountain forever. (The lich doesn't realize that Jhesiyra is beyond the reach of any mortal magic.)

#### Treasure

**Ezzat** wears an *amulet of proof against detection and location* and carries an ebony wand (25 gp) that he uses as an arcane focus.