# 18. Iron Mine

The duergar mine these tunnels for iron ore, which is taken to areas 16a and area 16b to be smelted. The operation runs smoothly because of the merciless oversight of **Stalagma Steelshadow**, Valtagar's wife.

The area is filled with the sounds of hammers and picks striking stone. The ceiling is roughly 10 feet high throughout.

#### 18a. Old Scaffolding

A mine track passes through this cave, which is filled with torn-down iron scaffolding. Duergar miners can be heard to the west (area 18b) and the south (areas 18c and area 18d).

#### 18b. Duergar Miners

Seven **duergar**—three males named Greorx, Hwahl, and Uzwurn, and four females named Awmok, Nezza, Proxna, and Warda—mine iron ore here. Eager for any distraction, the miners attack intruders on sight. Given the noise that echoes throughout the tunnels, the sound of clashing steel is unlikely to be noticed by the duergar in areas 18c and area 18d. Magical explosions or other unusual sounds do draw their attention, though.

#### 18c. A Miner Disturbance

Eleven **duergar** work here. Three of the workers are enlarged female duergar (Brakka, Korla, and Zagra) who use picks to break up a vein of iron ore that runs through the ceiling. Six normal-sized males (Hax, Mruuzdain, Oznur, Ramdrax, Tarnvur, and Yarox) work on expanding the cavern northward, while two normal-sized females (Nura and Speleosa) use hammers and spikes to separate iron from loose chunks of rock. If the miners notice the party, they attack, letting their enlarged allies barrel in first.

#### 18d. Overseer

This section of the mine has been depleted of mithral and iron ore. It contains the following:

>**Stalagma**. **Stalagma Steelshadow**, a female adult steel dragon in duergar form, is mounted on a **gorgon** near the bend in the mine track. (If **Valtagar Steelshadow** escaped from area 15, he is riding behind Stalagma on the gorgon.)
>
>**Xorn**. Three **xorn** under Stalagma's command are gathered around a broken mine cart filled with coins.
>

**Stalagma** is **Valtagar Steelshadow**'s beloved mate, and only Valtagar knows that his wife is a dragon in disguise. In her true form, Stalagma looks like a slender, 30-foot-long dragon with shiny steel-gray scales covering her body, steely talons, and blade-like horns that sweep back from her narrow head. She has the statistics of an **adult silver dragon**, with these changes:

- Stalagma is lawful evil.
- While in duergar form, she has the Duergar Resilience and Sunlight Sensitivity traits of a **duergar**, as well as its Enlarge and Invisibility action options. In this form, she wields a glaive and can use her action to attack with it three times (+13 to hit), dealing 13 (1d10 + 8) slashing damage on a hit, or 19 (2d10 + 8) slashing damage in her enlarged duergar form.
- Instead of Cold Breath, she breathes acid in a 60-foot-long, 5-foot-wide line. The breath weapon deals acid damage instead of cold damage.
- She speaks Draconic, Dwarvish, and Terran.

Stalagma is as miserable and conniving as any duergar. She raised the gorgon, and it allows no one except her to ride it. The beast is smart enough to obey Stalagma's verbal commands, and it's strong enough to bear her weight while she's in her enlarged duergar form.

Stalagma attacks any non-duergar who aren't under her husband's protection. If additional reinforcements are needed, Stalagma bellows, "To arms!" in Dwarvish. Her booming voice causes the duergar in areas 18b and area 18c to stop working and converge on her location with their weapons drawn. The battle cry also awakens the guards sleeping in area 19b, who collect their weapons and investigate. If her gorgon mount is killed or she is taking too much damage as a duergar, Stalagma uses her next action to revert to her true form. Other duergar who see Stalagma in her true form flee unless Valtagar is present to reassure them that the dragon is their ally.

Stalagma controls the xorn by feeding them treasure from the broken-down mine cart. In addition to Dwarvish and Draconic, she speaks Terran, so the xorn can understand her.

***Xorn.*** The xorn are initially hostile toward Stalagma's enemies. They quickly become indifferent toward characters who offer them gems as food, preferring such delicacies to the coins that Stalagma usually feeds them.

***Treasure.*** The mine cart has two broken axles. It contains 2,000 sp and 3,200 gp.