# 18. Shadow's Edge

Two tunnels converge on a 20-foot-high chamber that contains the following features:

>**Statues**. Two 12-foot-tall obsidian statues stand atop 5-foot-high blocks of stone in alcoves, facing one another. Each statue depicts a faceless robed woman holding a silver thread taut between her outstretched hands.
>
>**Shadow Curtain**. A thin, translucent curtain of shadow stretches between the statues, rippling like black cloth in a light breeze.
>
>**Locked Double Door**. Beyond the shadowy curtain is a 12-foot-tall arched double door with an ornate carving of a bronze dragon above it, its wings forming the door frame. Draconic letters are carved into the floor in front of the double door.
>

A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of conjuration magic around each strand of silver thread. The threads can be cut only by a magic sword. Cutting a thread causes it to disappear but also causes an elder rune (see "Elder Runes") to momentarily appear between the statue's hands. This elder rune specifically targets the creature that cut the thread. To determine which rune appears, draw a card from the Elder Runes Deck (see *appendix B*). The shadow curtain disappears when both silver threads are cut.

The rippling curtain of shadow that stretches between the two statues extends from floor to ceiling and radiates a strong aura of necromantic magic under the scrutiny of a *detect magic* spell. The statues are flush with the walls behind them, so circumventing the curtain is not possible.

Any creature that moves through the curtain must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The greater danger of the curtain is less obvious: if the double door is forced open, six **wraiths** emerge from the curtain and attack, pursuing creatures that flee. A wraith that has nothing to attack on its turn enters the shadow curtain and vanishes. The wraiths don't appear once the curtain disappears.

#### Locked Double Door

The Draconic inscription on the floor in front of the double door reads, "The shadow is the key." Carved into the floor above the inscription is a small, 3-inch-deep keyhole that contains no locking mechanism. A silver rod with a key-shaped end, which can be found in areas 10 and area 13b, fits into this keyhole perfectly. Using a light source to cast the shadow of a rod-key onto the doors causes them to swing open, allowing access to area 19. It is this shadow, not the key itself, that unlocks the doors. Unless they are held open, the doors close and lock on their own after being open for 1 minute. The doors are not locked from the other side and can be opened from area 19 without a rod-key.

The locked doors can also be opened with a *knock* spell or similar magic, or forced open with a successful DC 28 Strength (Athletics) check.