# 18. Berlain's Suite

A horribly disfigured mage named **Berlain Shadowdusk** claims these chambers.

#### 18a. Study

>**Furnishings**. A black stone desk stands to the south. Next to the desk is a slender stone lectern with an open book resting on it.
>
>**Tapestry**. A tapestry covering the east wall shows a tentacled creature from nightmare stuffing a number of naked, terrified humanoids into its black maw.
>

Berlain's notes, strewn across her desk, are a blend of arcane esoterica and insane pronouncements. All of it paints a picture of horrific experiments performed on living humanoids. A recently scrawled annotation laments a lack of fresh subjects that is stalling her work.

***Treasure.*** Berlain's spellbook rests atop the lectern. It contains all the spells she has prepared, plus *fireball* and *modify memory*.

The tapestry weighs 40 pounds and is worth 250 gp (assuming the characters can find a buyer who appreciates its disturbing imagery).

#### 18b. Bedchamber

>**Furnishings**. A chest of drawers and a bed heaped with pillows stand along the west wall. A sitting area with comfortable chairs is set up against the east wall.
>
>**Monsters**. A mutated humanoid (**Berlain Shadowdusk**) sits on the edge of the bed, patching gashes in her robe. Floating nearby are two **grells**.
>

A little over a year ago, Berlain and her brother Korva briefly entered the Far Realm, whereupon they became fused into a single physical form. This merging obliterated most of Korva's body and personality, leaving Berlain with an extra mouth and an extra set of arms that once belonged to her brother. She also inherited a few of his internal organs and personality traits. She can speak using one or both of her mouths.

Berlain has dirty blonde hair, piercing dark eyes, and two mouths where one would normally be—one below the other, canted at an angle. Sprouting from her misshapen shoulders are two pairs of arms—her original limbs above those of her brother. She wears a poorly stitched robe made from other garments and designed to fit her mutated form.

Berlain has a close kinship with Vertrand, and the two wizards work well together. Berlain has no interest in forging alliances with visitors and tries to capture intruders for use as experimental subjects.

Berlain is an **archmage**, with these changes:

- Berlain is a chaotic evil aberration who speaks Common, Deep Speech, Grell, and Undercommon.
- She has the *polymorph* spell prepared instead of *banishment*.
- As a bonus action, she can use her extra mouth and arms to cast any cantrip she has prepared.

The grells serve as Berlain's valets, and she communicates with them in their own language. The grells try to grapple and subdue intruders on sight.

***Treasure.*** The chest of drawers contains torn-up scraps of clothing. In the bottom drawer is an unlocked coffer containing 300 gp, a polished crystal orb carved to look like a glistening doppelganger eyeball (usable as an arcane focus), and a *spell scroll* of *flesh to stone*.