# 19. Hall of Death

Characters entering this hall for the first time feel as though they've crossed a planar threshold of some kind, but a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check is needed to confirm that this part of the dungeon resides in the Shadowfell. All color has been drained from this hall, which greets visitors with the stench of death (see "Into the Shadowfell"). The hall's other features are as follows:

>**Ceiling**. The ceiling is arched and 30 feet high.
>
>**Skulls and Bones**. Old skulls and bones (the remains of dead adventurers and monsters) have been swept into alcoves along the hall's southern stretch.
>
>**Vision**. Any character who opens a door leading west or east experiences one of the shadow dragon's visions.
>

If the bones are disturbed, a giant spectral mouth with fangs appears, floating 10 feet in front of the double door to the south. It recites the following verse in Common before disappearing:

Welcome to **Umbraxakar**'s lair.

A dragon held in the grip of despair

Conjures memories of his departed friend:

Upon sunlight's blade, he met his end.

#### Dragon's Vision

In this vision, the character is engaged in hand-to-hand combat with a man wearing a mithral chain shirt (Lord Vanrak Moonstar). The brawl ends when the man is knocked to the floor, stumbles to his feet, draws the bronzed hilt of a *sun blade* that suddenly burns with radiance, and says, "Remember this? Your gift to me? Challenge me again, and I'll carve out that big heart of yours and eat it!" The viewer's perspective changes as the character transforms into a bronze dragon and says in Common, "Vanrak! I am your friend. Listen to me. She's using the pain of your father's death to lead you down the darkest of all paths. For the love of Selûne, do not follow her!" With that, the vision ends.