# 2. Mad Golem's Lair

Characters who approach this cavern from any direction hear stone smashing against stone. The cavern has a peaked roof 50 feet high and the following features:

>**Construct**. A hulking, mobile mass of jumbled stone stands atop a natural rise in the center of the cavern. It is using its fists to smash something.
>
>**Forge**. Carved into one wall is a stone forge that hasn't been lit in ages. A rusty iron anvil sits atop a 1-foot-high granite plinth in front of the forge.
>

The jumbled construct was once a 10-foot-tall stone golem created in the image of Halaster. In its madness, it has attached so many pieces of other Stonecloaks to itself that it has become a lumbering, 17-foot-tall amalgamation of stone torsos, limbs, and heads—all of which resemble parts of the Mad Mage.

Any character who gets close can see that the object being destroyed by the **mad golem** is a stone golem that resembles Halaster. Even if the characters intervene quickly, the **Stonecloak** is already in pieces and can't be saved.

As the characters observe it for the first time, the **mad golem** removes the Runestone fragment from the pulverized remains of its latest victim and swallows it, then begins attaching pieces of the destroyed stone golem to itself. Swallowing the Runestone fragment allows the **mad golem** to ignore its Immutable Form trait and restores all its hit points. Characters who interrupt or attack the golem incur its enmity. Otherwise, it shows little interest in them.

The **mad golem** is a **stone golem** with a challenge rating of 12 (8,400 XP) and these changes:

- The golem is Huge and has 264 (23d12 + 115) hit points.
- Each of its slam attacks deals 24 (4d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage on a hit.
- It has Intelligence and Charisma scores of 9.
- It understands the following languages but can't speak: Abyssal, Celestial, Common, Draconic, Dwarvish, Elvish, Infernal, and Undercommon.

The golem is too big to fit down any tunnel smaller than 10 feet wide. Left to its own devices, it remains here and waits for another **Stonecloak** to wander into the area, then attacks it.

#### Treasure

Any character who searches the interior of the forge and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds the soot-covered tinderbox, which contains a single *bead of force*.