# 2. Reversed Library

Everything in this room is upside down because gravity in the room is magically reversed. The room is furnished thusly:

>**Bookshelves**. The walls are lined with upside-down bookshelves, fully stocked with upside-down history books from the many parts of the world Halaster has explored.
>
>**Desk**. In the middle of the 15-foot-high ceiling is an upside-down desk topped with a stack of tomes held between two golden, upside-down bookends shaped like bulettes bursting out of the ground.
>

The reverse gravity field can't be negated, though it is suppressed within an antimagic field. Unless anchored, held down, or affected by a *fly* spell or similar magic, any creature or object that enters this room falls up toward the ceiling.

The desk is empty except for the array of nine books held between the bulette-shaped bookends. Eight of the books contain essays pertaining to the eight schools of magic, one book dedicated to each school. The cover and the pages of the ninth book appear blank.

Placing the other books in alphabetical order by school of magic between the bookends causes Halaster's rune to appear on the cover of the ninth book and spells to appear on its pages. This tome is one of Halaster's spellbooks (see "Treasure" below).

#### Treasure

The gold bookends are worth 500 gp for the pair, while the eight books detailing the schools of magic are worth 100 gp each.

Halaster's spellbook contains the following spells: *Bigby's hand*, *color spray*, *crown of madness*, *enlarge/reduce*, *fabricate*, *false life*, *gaseous form*, *gust of wind*, *hold monster*, *ice storm*, *jump*, *maze*, *Otto's irresistible dance*, *reverse gravity*, *sleet storm*, and *weird*.