# 2. Twisted Gallery

>**Bas-Reliefs**. The curved walls are lined with bas-relief carvings, and plaques mounted beneath them tell the story of a forgotten Waterdavian family.
>
>**Statues**. Two 9-foot-tall statues stand on raised platforms in alcoves to the north and south.
>

The bas-reliefs carvings depict Arandraya, Maelweene, and Yarlithra Shadowdusk negotiating trade deals in Waterdeep, exploring Undermountain in their free time, pouring treasure into family coffers, and giving a black tablet to their brother, Xerrion. The carvings go on to show the original Shadowdusk Hold (in Waterdeep) on fire, Xerrion Shadowdusk escaping into Undermountain with the black tablet, the creation of a new Shadowdusk Hold in the dungeon's depths, Xerrion's marriage to Lady Margaraste, and the married couple stepping through a gate of tentacles into the Far Realm.

A successful DC 15 Intelligence (History) check identifies the family crest in the reliefs—a lit torch with an orange flame and three embers trailing off it—and the two mottoes of House Shadowdusk: "No secrets without truth" and "We do not fear the darkness." The crest appears upright in earlier scenes and inverted in later scenes. A character who recognizes the crest and the family mottoes also knows that the Shadowdusks were presumed destroyed.

The statue to the north depicts Lord Xerrion Shadowdusk, a male human of middle age with regal bearing and sharp features. The south statue depicts Lady Margaraste Shadowdusk, a middle-aged female human with long, curly hair and a kind smile. An inscription on the bottom of each statue identifies its subject.