# 2. Western Cavern

The githyanki knocked down several walls to create this chamber, and much of the debris has yet to be cleared.

#### 2a. Ilmei's Watch

>**Crystal Stalactite**. A 10-foot-long crystal stalactite hangs above a pit filled with silvery mist. Encased in the stalactite is Ilmei, a female **githyanki gish** (see *appendix A* for statistics; see also "Crystal Stalactites").
>
>**Guards**. Around the pit, four **githyanki warriors** (two males and two females) spar with each other to pass the time.
>

Fresh out of Crèche K'liir, the young githyanki warriors are hostile toward intruders. If two of them fall, the remaining ones retreat to area 3b or dive into the pit.

Creatures that fall into the pit are immediately transported to the Astral Plane (see *chapter 2* of the *Dungeon Master's Guide* for more information).

#### 2b. Dragon Engravings

The walls of this chamber are engraved with images of armored githyanki knights riding red dragons.

#### 2c. Illithid Heads

Twelve severed mind flayer heads are mounted on the east and west walls of this partially destroyed area. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of necromancy magic around each head, which is a Tiny object with AC 5, 3 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Reducing a head to 0 hit points destroys it. Whenever a head is destroyed, any remaining mind flayer heads in the area that haven't been destroyed emit a telepathic scream. Each creature in the room takes 1d6 psychic damage for each screaming head (maximum 12d6).