# 21. Displaced Vault

These chambers were built by Melairkyn dwarves on another level. Halaster moved them here.

#### 21a. Acid and Glass

>**Ultroloths**. Four **ultroloths** (each marked with a U on map 23) lurk in alcoves along the north and south walls of this 30-foot-high room.
>
>**Glass-Covered Acid Pit**. The floor is a 6-inch-thick sheet of transparent glass, below which is a 30-foot-deep pit containing a 20-foot-deep pool of yellow acid. Visible through the churning, translucent acid are three 1-foot-diameter pitted iron wheels affixed to the pit floor in a triangular formation.
>
>**Secret Door**. A secret door in the east wall is locked.
>

The ultroloths spend most of their time using *clairvoyance* spells to scry on area 20, but they emerge from their alcoves to attack anyone other than Halaster who enters this room. Their purpose here is to guard area 21b. The acid pit doesn't concern the ultroloths, since they have immunity to acid damage.

Each 10-foot-square section of glass floor has AC 13, a damage threshold of 10, 25 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Destroying three or more 10-foot-square sections causes the remainder of the glass floor to shatter, dropping all creatures standing on it into the acid. Any creature that enters the acid or starts its turn in it takes 33 (6d10) acid damage.

A character can use an action to try to turn one of the iron wheels at the bottom of the acid pit, doing so with a successful DC 16 Strength (Athletics) check. A wheel can also be turned by a character using a *telekinesis* spell or similarly powerful magic. Turning all three wheels unlocks the secret door to area 21b.

The secret door is above the acid and held shut by three internal sliding bolt locks, each of which is attached to one of the submerged iron wheels in the acid pit. In lieu of turning those wheels, characters need three separate *knock* spells to open the door (one per lock). The door can't be forced open otherwise. Once all three bolts are slid back, the door pushes open easily.

#### 21b. Nimoar's Shield

This room appears empty except for dust and cobwebs. A thorough search reveals a stone peg protruding from the middle of the east wall at a height of 6 feet.

***Treasure.*** If the word "xunderbrok" is spoken aloud anywhere in this room, a wooden shield materializes on the stone peg. Iron spikes protrude from the shield's edges, and a cracked orc skull is painted in black on its outer surface. A *legend lore* spell reveals that the shield was crafted for Nimoar, a legendary human warlord who died in 936 DR. After his death, the shield disappeared from Nimoar's Hold (a fortress that stood where Castle Waterdeep stands today), only to find its way here.

Nimoar's shield is a *+3 shield* with no additional magical properties.