# 21. Night and Day

>**Timekeeper**. Four pillars support the 20-foot-high ceiling. An iron ring 20 feet in diameter is suspended from iron brackets affixed to the tops of the pillars so that it hangs parallel to the floor 20 feet below. Nested inside this ring is a circular iron disk of slightly smaller diameter with a symbol of the sun embossed on one side and a symbol of the moon on the opposite side. Directly above the ring and the disk is a 10-foot-deep, dome-shaped concavity in the ceiling.
>
>**Statues**. Nestled in alcoves are two life-size statues of robed human wizards, their faces obscured under stony cowls and their arms raised toward the iron disk.
>

This room is one large timekeeping device. Every day at dawn and at dusk, the wizard statues exert invisible magical force upon the suspended iron disk, causing it to flip over within its circular frame like a coin. During the day, the sun symbol is visible on the disk's underside; at night, the disk displays the moon symbol on its underside. When the disk rotates, half of it swings up into the dome-shaped concavity in the ceiling. The lower half swings downward, with 10 feet of clearance between its outer edge and the floor.

A *detect magic* spell reveals auras of evocation magic and transmutation magic around the statues, which defy all attempts to move or break them. If a creature attempts to turn the disk manually, the statues discharge lightning that fills the room. All creatures in the room at that moment must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures in direct contact with the iron ring or the disk, as well as creatures clad in metal armor, have disadvantage on the saving throw.