# 22. Rooms of Magic

**Ezzat** summons and speaks to planar beings in area 22a, and keeps his spellbook in area 22b.

#### 22a. Magic Circle

>**Circle**. A circle of runes is inscribed on the floor.
>
>**Door Symbol**. The door to area 22b has a large symbol chiseled into it. (The symbol is **Ezzat**'s personal sigil, which appears nowhere else in the tower. It is purely decorative.)
>

A character who examines the circle and succeeds on a DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) check can determine that it confers the same benefit as a *magic circle* spell that affects celestials, elementals, fey, and fiends all at once. The circle is permanent, but defacing any part of its inscribed length renders it nonmagical.

#### 22b. Ezzat's Spellbook

>**Statue**. A shallow alcove holds a 6-foot-tall painted statue of **Ezzat** as he appeared in life. A leather-bound tome (**Ezzat**'s spellbook) is clutched to the statue's chest.
>
>**Secret Door**. Hidden in the ceiling is a secret door leading to area 23 (see "Stone Plug" below).
>

The statue projects an antipathy effect like that created by an *antipathy/sympathy* spell (save DC 20) while the spellbook is in its grasp. The spell affects all creatures except **Ezzat** and is inactive whenever the spellbook is removed from the statue.

No spells or other magical effects can move or damage the statue, which is a Medium object with AC 17, 33 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If the statue is destroyed, it turns to dust. A *delayed blast fireball* spell (save DC 20) then immediately detonates in its space.

***Stone Plug.*** The secret door in the ceiling is an airtight, circular stone plug 8 feet in diameter. A character who examines the ceiling closely can spot the circular seam in the rock with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check.

The stone plug, which weighs 1,000 pounds, has its rim beveled to keep the plug from falling through the hole. It can be pushed upward with a *telekinesis* spell or similar magic, or obliterated entirely with a *disintegrate* spell. Characters who have a combined Strength of 34 or higher can push the plug out of the hole, provided they have something firm to stand on.

***Treasure.*** **Ezzat**'s spellbook weighs 13 pounds and contains all the spells the lich has prepared, plus the following: *alarm*, *arcane lock*, *burning hands*, *charm person*, *clairvoyance*, *comprehend languages*, *cone of cold*, *delayed blast fireball*, *Evard's black tentacles*, *fear*, *feeblemind*, *flesh to stone*, *geas*, *hold person*, *ice storm*, *imprisonment*, *knock*, *levitate*, *magic mouth*, *maze*, *meteor swarm*, *mislead*, *plane shift*, *prismatic wall*, *remove curse*, *telekinesis*, *true polymorph*, *unseen servant*, *wall of force*, and *web*.