# 23. Meditation Rooms

Shadowdusk family members use these rooms for silent reflection and contemplation.

#### 23a. Outer Sanctum

Soft cushions and woven mats adorn the floor of this fragrant room. Brass censers hold cones of unlit incense. A secret door in the southeast wall leads to area 23b.

#### 23b. Black Crystal Tablet

This chamber contains no light sources and is unnaturally dark. Any bright light that shines into this room or inside it is reduced to dim light, and dim light is reduced to darkness. Darkvision functions normally here.

A stone table rests against the wall opposite the door. A tablet made of black crystal inscribed with strange writing rests on the table. The tablet is cold to the touch, and its writing appears to writhe.

***Treasure.*** Xerrion Shadowdusk originally used the tablet to contact beings of the Far Realm. Other family members have used it for similar purposes over the years. It weighs 11 pounds and measures 7 inches wide, 13 inches tall, and 2 inches thick.

The *black crystal tablet* is a legendary magic item that requires attunement by a creature that has proficiency in the Arcana skill. Any creature that attunes to the tablet must make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw at the end of its next long rest. On a failed save, the creature becomes afflicted with a random form of long-term madness (see "*Madness*" in chapter 8 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*).

As an action, a creature attuned to the *black crystal tablet* can use it to cast *eyebite* or *gate* (the portal created by this spell links to the Far Realm only). After the tablet is used to cast a spell, it cannot be used again until the next dawn.