# 23. Experiments

The doors to these rooms have *arcane lock* spells cast on them that allow **Arcturia** alone to pass. A door can be forced open with a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check.

#### 23a. Shoe Hulk

Lying in the middle of this room is an old shoe with a **scorpion** hiding in it. If the shoe is disturbed, the scorpion scuttles out and attacks the nearest creature.

The scorpion is, in fact, an **umber hulk** under the effect of a *polymorph* spell made permanent with a *wish* spell. The umber hulk reverts to its true form and attacks when its scorpion form is reduced to 0 hit points.

#### 23b. Bad Blades

A corroded steel helm rests atop a pile of rusty swords in the middle of the room. When another creature enters the room, the pile of swords gathers into a vaguely humanoid form with the helm surmounting it and attacks. This assemblage of rusty steel has the statistics of **animated armor**, except that its attacks deal piercing damage instead of bludgeoning damage.

#### 23c. Rodent of Unusual Size

>**Monster**. A giant two-headed rat (use **death dog** statistics) is trapped here. This rodent is the size of a human and is hostile toward all intruders.
>
>**Meat Chute**. In the ceiling near the north wall is a rectangular opening, 12 inches long by 6 inches wide, that forms the mouth of a stone chute leading up.
>

Every few hours, a brick of rotting meat slides down the chute from a hidden chamber above. The meat hits the floor with a wet smack and is promptly eaten by the monstrous rodent. A Tiny or gaseous creature can access this small, hidden chamber by climbing up the chute. There are no exits from the upper room, which contains only hundreds of bricks of pink, rotting meat and a magical mechanism that pushes them down the chute at random intervals. It's impossible to discern what sort of creature the meat has been harvested from.

#### 23d. Guffaw the Stone Eater

This room contains the smashed remains of a dwarf statue and a plump **deep gnome (svirfneblin)** named Guffaw Gravelstock, who was plucked from his Underdark gem mine by **Arcturia**. He is unfamiliar with Undermountain.

**Arcturia**'s magic has given the gnome an insatiable appetite for carved stone. He uses his war pick to break up the statue and is devouring it slowly, one piece at a time. He can't keep himself from stopping to eat any carved stone he sees—and there's no end to how much he can consume. He begs to be left alone so he can finish his meal in peace. A successful *dispel magic* spell (DC 19) cast on Guffaw rids him of his unique magical malady.

***Treasure.*** The instant he is cured of his malady, Guffaw coughs up two diamonds (5,000 gp each). He is just as surprised to see the gemstones as anyone else, and he offers them to the characters as a reward for "saving" him. He then seeks out a way back to the Underdark, wanting nothing more to do with Undermountain.