# 23. Fazrian's Court

Time and neglect have diminished the grandeur of these vaulted halls, wherein the fallen angel awaits.

#### 23a. Grand Foyer

The 18-foot-high double doors to the west swing inward, revealing a stone-tiled foyer with a 40-foot-high ceiling. The area contains the following features:

>**Braziers**. The foyer is heated and dimly lit by two 6-foot-tall, 6-foot-wide stone braziers filled with burning coals. Smoke and embers rise from each.
>
>**Statues**. Extending eastward from the foyer is a 20-foot-wide, 30-foot-high arched hall lined with 15-foot-tall iron statues of armored dwarves draped in cobwebs. *Continual flame* spells flicker behind the eye holes of their helms, and their iron greataxes are raised high.
>

#### 23b. Hall of Final Judgment

The floor of this 40-foot-high chamber is shaped like the head of a double-bladed axe. The room, which smells of roses and sulfur, contains the following:

>**Fazrian and Fiend**. A hairless, green-skinned planetar with white-feathered wings and eyes of molten silver sits on a bone throne in a raised alcove. Lurking in the shadows behind the throne is Raxxus, a **nycaloth**. (The yugoloth passively guards the wall behind it, which contains a secret door to area 24.)
>
>**Braziers**. The chamber is dimly lit by four 6-foot-tall, 6-foot-wide stone braziers filled with burning coals that produce smoke and embers.
>
>**Standing Gate**. To the north stands a pair of crystal menhirs, each imprisoning a **marilith**.
>
>**Open Pit**. A gaping pit lies to the south, its rectangular mouth measuring 10 feet wide by 20 feet long by 30 feet deep, with a 20-foot-high, 20-foot-wide passage at the bottom leading south. Characters near the lip of the pit can hear large creatures (the otyughs in area 23c) shuffling in the darkness below.
>

**Fazrian** is a lawful evil **planetar** that lacks the Healing Touch action option. Unless he is incapacitated, **Fazrian** can take one of the following lair actions on initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties) while on the Terminus Level:

- Blood flows from **Fazrian**'s eyes until initiative count 20 on the next round. No creature within 120 feet of the planetar can regain hit points until the effect ends.
- **Fazrian**'s eyes become smoldering black voids until initiative count 20 on the next round. All other creatures within 120 feet of the planetar have disadvantage on saving throws until the effect ends.
- Blinding magical light springs from **Fazrian**'s eyes until initiative count 20 on the next round. If a creature starts its turn within 120 feet of the planetar and the two of them can see each other, **Fazrian** can force the creature to make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is blinded. The blindness lasts until the creature receives a *lesser restoration* spell or similar magic.

Once an exemplar of courage and good judgment, **Fazrian** now seeks to destroy any creature it believes is undeserving of continued existence. **Fazrian**'s views are a mockery of what they once were. Every creature is guilty of "deformity" in the planetar's eyes. Unless someone can swiftly prove their innocence, **Fazrian** sentences that individual to an immediate death.

Persuading the planetar to render a verdict of not guilty requires at least one party member to submit to **Fazrian**'s judgment. That character must then offer to surrender their own life to spare the lives of the others. Any character who stands before **Fazrian** and shows both courage and self-sacrifice is found innocent of the crime of deformity. Denials, protests, and challenges to **Fazrian**'s authority are met with stern pronouncements of guilt. The planetar can tell when it is being lied to (thanks to its Divine Awareness trait), and characters who lie to **Fazrian** are immediately judged guilty.

The planetar has delusions of raising an army to sweep through Undermountain and purge it of those it deems abhorrent. Before letting innocents off the hook, **Fazrian** demands that they each swear an oath to serve it henceforth. Those who refuse to take the oath are found guilty of the crime of cowardice and sentenced to death.

Once judgment is rendered, **Fazrian** orders Raxxus to step forth, slay the guilty party or parties, and cast their bodies into the pit (see area 23c). After the guilty have been punished, those found innocent are escorted by Raxxus to the arcanaloths in area 14 for indoctrination. If the nycaloth is killed, the planetar takes up its sword and attacks the guilty.

Only a character judged innocent by **Fazrian** can alter the planetar's disposition enough to make it realize how corrupt it has become. Such a character can use an action to call on the planetar to look inward and judge itself, making a DC 26 Charisma (Persuasion) check as part of that action. If the player roleplays well, grant the character advantage on the check. A character who gets a failure on the check can't try again, but they can still help another character who then tries to convince the planetar of its own guilt. On a successful check of this sort, a lingering shred of goodness in **Fazrian** is awakened. The planetar weeps as it begs Torm for forgiveness. Then, in a final act of atonement and self-sacrifice, it impales itself on its sword and dies.

If the planetar dies by its own hand or at the hands of the characters, Torm bestows on each character a *blessing of protection* (see "*Supernatural Gifts*" in chapter 7 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*). This blessing is permanent if its receiver is a worshiper of Torm; otherwise, the blessing lasts for 10 days. Torm's blessing is not bestowed on any character who releases one or both mariliths that are trapped in the crystal menhirs (see "Standing Gate to Level 19" below).

***Nycaloth.*** Raxxus serves as the planetar's executioner, ready to step forward and slay whatever **Fazrian** commands it to kill. Raxxus can summon other yugoloths (as described in the "Variant: Yugoloth Summoning" sidebar in the "Yugoloths" entry in the *Monster Manual*) and tries to do so if reinforcements are needed. Characters who defeat the planetar can tempt Raxxus with a bribe. Treasure in the amount of 10,000 gp or more can change the nycaloth's attitude toward the party from hostile to indifferent; treasure in the amount of 25,000 gp or more changes its attitude to friendly. Raxxus won't hurt the characters if it's indifferent toward them and helps the characters if it's friendly toward them. The nycaloth's disposition reverts to hostile if the characters threaten it or fail to make payment in a reasonable amount of time.

***Standing Gate to Level 19.*** The crystal menhirs are indestructible and form one of Halaster's magic gates (see "Gates"). Striking either menhir with a hard object or targeting one or both with a *shatter* spell deals no damage, but causes an affected standing stone to emit a loud ringing that awakens the marilith demon inside. Nothing else causes these demons to awaken.

The first thing an awakened marilith does is free itself using its Teleport action option. The mariliths are hostile toward all creatures that aren't demons, and they despise angels most of all. If a marilith is released in **Fazrian**'s presence, the demon and the angel fight until only one is left standing. If the planetar is forced to fight one marilith by itself, assume that **Fazrian** emerges victorious with 60 hit points remaining. If forced to fight both mariliths by itself, **Fazrian** is killed and each demon is left with 60 hit points.

After being released from its menhir, a marilith can be magically compelled to divulge the command word that activates the gate. A *legend lore* spell or similar magic also reveals the command word. The current command word is "Yuraj," but Halaster changes it every few days. The rules of this gate are as follows:

- The gate opens for 1 minute if a creature speaks the proper command word within 10 feet of it.
- Characters must be 15th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 7 on level 19, in the closest unoccupied space next to the similar gate located there.

#### 23c. Garbage Disposal

A 20-foot-wide, 20-foot-high tunnel at the bottom of the pit in area 23b leads south before coming to a dead end. The floor of the tunnel is covered with bones, bits of adventuring gear, and other debris.

At the end of the tunnel lurk three hungry **otyughs**. When they detect other creatures in the pit, they rush forth and attack while using their Limited Telepathy to taunt prey.

***Treasure.*** Scattered among the bones at the south end of the tunnel are 1,300 sp, 600 gp, and a thin gold playing card stamped with the image of a masked man and titled "The Thief." The card is worth 10 gp and completes a deck of cards found in area 10b.