# 23. Ezzat's Phylactery

>**Lich Cave**. This room is carved to look like a natural cave with a 20-foot-high, domed roof. Hundreds of pebble-sized crystals (fragments of the Runestone) line the walls, flickering like tiny stars as they catch the light.
>
>**Demon**. A **marilith** demon slithers about the room.
>
>**Phylactery**. Lying in the middle of the floor is a small ornate metal box (**Ezzat**'s phylactery).
>

**Ezzat** recently summoned the marilith to guard his phylactery. A *geas* spell cast on it by the lich requires the demon to protect the phylactery against theft or destruction. The marilith takes out its frustration at being stuck here by attacking intruders. If a character snatches the phylactery and flees, the marilith tries to pursue so as to avoid taking psychic damage from **Ezzat**'s *geas* spell. The stone plug in the floor is too heavy for the marilith to lift.

A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of transmutation magic radiating from the walls, which have more than six hundred Runestone fragments embedded in them. Each fragment extends the duration of the *geas* spell affecting the marilith by 30 days. The Runestone fragments disappear if the spell ends, their magic spent. The Runestone fragments can't be pried from the walls, since the same magic that protects the stalagmite tower from damage prevents their removal.

#### Phylactery

**Ezzat**'s phylactery is a box 6 inches long, 3 inches wide, and 4 inches tall that weighs 2 pounds. It is made of adamantine with gold trim, and its interior is inscribed with tiny silver runes. A *detect magic* spell reveals a powerful aura of necromancy magic around it. Any character who examines the box and succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check recognizes it as a lich's phylactery. (For more information on lich phylacteries, see the "Lich" entry in the *Monster Manual*.)

Destroying **Ezzat**'s phylactery requires that it be struck by eight *disintegrate* spells at the same time. A *legend lore* spell cast on the box provides the following insight: "Seek out eight magi who possess the power of disintegration and bring them to common purpose. Their combined force can destroy the phylactery." Other reliable divination spells provide similar advice.