# 24. Potion Brewery

>**Cauldron**. Fire erupts from a hole in the middle of the floor. Floating 1 foot above the fire is a hefty iron cauldron big enough for a person to hide in. A plume of black smoke rises from inside the cauldron.
>
>**Paraphernalia**. Behind the cauldron rests a wooden table cluttered with brewing equipment. The floor around the table is strewn with shattered glass and empty flasks. Tucked under the table is a wooden crate with Halaster's personal rune burned into its sides.
>
>**Demilich**. Floating behind the table is a **demilich** that looks like a human skull with a jagged crack that extends above and below one eye socket.
>
>**Shelves and Ladder**. The walls are lined with 10-foot-tall, wooden shelves packed with jars of pickled newts, frogs' eyes, and other common ingredients used in the brewing of potions. A wooden ladder on rollers is attached to a rail mounted above the shelves.
>

This demilich is all that remains of Branta Myntion, a wizard who fell in with a bad crowd. Her hunger for magic set her on an evil path as she hunted down and killed other wizards to acquire their spellbooks. Before old age could claim her, Branta transformed herself into a lich. In this form, she came to Undermountain to plunder its magic. Halaster captured and enslaved her, promising to free her if she helped him brew potions. Tragically, that promise went unfulfilled.

Deprived of the ability to feed souls into her phylactery, which lies hidden in a dungeon far from Waterdeep, Branta's skeletal form deteriorated. Now, over a century later, only her skull remains. Years of captivity have driven the demilich insane, and it attacks anyone other than Halaster.

Although powerful wards prevent the demilich from leaving Halaster's tower, the tower is not considered its lair. Consequently, the demilich doesn't gain lair actions, nor does the tower exhibit the demilich's lair traits.

#### Cauldron

The cauldron is held aloft by magic, and the fire beneath it is also magical. Casting *dispel magic* on the cauldron causes it to fall; casting the spell on the fire extinguishes it.

***Elixir of Timelessness.*** The cauldron contains twenty doses of a hot, oily black elixir that has grains of sand floating in it. A creature that imbibes a single dose of the liquid gains the ability to cast *time stop* once in the next 24 hours. A creature that imbibes multiple doses of the elixir gains the benefit of only the last dose consumed. One minute after it is removed from a heat source, the elixir cools and loses its magic.

#### Crate

The crate contains thirty corked and labeled bottles of Halaster's Futuristic Frogmash, a foul-tasting homebrewed wine. Each label bears Halaster's rune and the date 1531 DR.

A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of abjuration magic around one of the bottles. Uncorking this bottle causes an elder rune to appear in the air above it (see "Elder Runes"). The rune targets the creature that opened the bottle. If the bottle was opened with a *mage hand* spell or similar magic, the rune targets the caster of the spell, provided the caster is within 60 feet of the opened bottle. Determine the rune randomly by drawing a card from the Elder Runes Deck (see *appendix B*).