# 24. Githzerai Retreat

Four githzerai have taken refuge in this corner of the Obstacle Course (see "Githzerai Zerths"). Using psionics, they hide themselves from the scrying eyes of Halaster. They also avoid Netherskull.

The githzerai leader, Yrlakka, is a father figure to the others and serves as their mentor. They attack mind flayers and their thralls on sight, but all other creatures are treated with cautious respect until they prove themselves undeserving of such consideration.

All rooms and corridors in this part of the dungeon have flat, 10-foot-high ceilings.

#### 24a. Hall of Smiths

>**Decor**. Painted stone tiles of dwarf smiths at work once covered the walls, but most have cracked and fallen to the floor, where they lie in small heaps of swept-up rubble.
>
>**Scuff Marks**. Scuff marks on the floor show evidence of stone furnishings long since removed.
>

Characters who hold bright light sources in this room or make a lot of noise alert the githzerai in area 24c, who remain where they are but can't be surprised.

***Teleport Trap.*** This trap fills a 10-foot-square section of the passage leading to area 24d. A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination         |
|:-----:|------------------------------|
|  1–8  | The teleport trap in area 6  |
|  9–16 | The teleport trap in area 8  |
| 17–20 | The teleport trap in area 26 |

Since they can't avoid the trap, the githzerai steer clear of area 24d and the hallway that leads to it unless they need to use the trap to escape a greater danger.

#### 24b. Resting Chamber

The githzerai use this chamber to sleep and meditate. Five bedrolls are laid out on the dusty floor, one for each githzerai (including the missing zerth).

#### 24c. Zerths

The door to this room is ajar. Characters who approach stealthily might overhear the githzerai speaking quietly inside. The room's features are as follows:

>**Githzerai**. Four **githzerai zerths** are having a hushed conversation in the middle of the room, speaking Gith. They stop talking and ready themselves for combat if they detect intruders.
>
>**Arch**. A stone arch is embedded in the middle of the south wall. Carved into the arch's keystone is an image of a six-fingered gauntlet.
>

The zerths include Yrlakka, the group's leader, and three of his pupils: two female githzerai named Azal and Vond, and a male named Rishindar. Yrlakka's primary concern is the safe return of his missing pupil, Ezria, who he believes was captured while scouting the githyanki forces on *level 16*. If the characters agree to find Ezria, Yrlakka and his remaining pupils tag along unless the characters would rather complete the quest by themselves. If Ezria is rescued and reunited with his companions, Yrlakka rewards the characters with the wand in his possession (see "Treasure" below).

If the characters aren't interested in aiding the githzerai but request help getting through the Obstacle Course, Yrlakka tells them that the level is rigged with many traps and guarded by a death tyrant.

***Arch Gate to Level 17.*** The arch is one of Halaster's magical gates (see "Gates"). This gate's rules are as follows:

- The gate opens for 1 minute if a creature touches the arch with a six-fingered gauntlet (one can be found in area 14b).
- Characters must be 14th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 7a on level 17, in the closest unoccupied space next to the identical gate located there.

The githzerai have correctly deduced that a six-fingered gauntlet is required to activate the gate but don't know where to find such an item. (The characters can locate one in area 14b. A character proficient with smith's tools can also fashion one out of scrap metal in a tenday using an intact forge.)

***Treasure.*** Yrlakka carries a *potion of resistance (fire)* in a tiny crystal vial fastened to a cord around his right ankle, and he has a *wand of magic detection* hanging from his belt.

#### 24d. Fountain

In the west half of the room, a semicircular fountain emerges from the north wall. Fresh water springs from the mouth of a stone trout held in the arms of a merman bas-relief carved above the fountain's basin, which is filled almost to the brim.

The water pouring into the fountain is drinkable. It drains out slowly through holes along the inside lip of the basin.