# 24. Secret Vault

This oval chamber has a domed ceiling 20 feet high, as well as the following features:

>**Bloody Hand**. Dry blood stains every surface except for a patch in the shape of a giant hand on the back wall.
>
>**Head and Mace**. Piled in the middle of the room are ten shattered stone chests. A mace and a headless human corpse lie on the floor next to this rubble. The corpse's severed head lies a few feet away. Maggots feast on the rotting remains.
>

Any character who succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Religion) check realizes that the hand shape on the back wall resembles the symbol of Torm.

Characters who witnessed the ghostly scene in area 7 recognize the corpse as that of the cleric in the vision. Brythia Mulspeer and her adventuring companions were exploring Undermountain when the perils became too much for them. Brythia petitioned Torm for aid, and **Fazrian** answered the summons. The planetar provided much-needed assistance and healing, then chose to remain by Brythia's side as the adventurers descended deeper into Undermountain. When blood lust finally took hold of the planetar, it turned on the adventurers and decapitated Brythia with its greatsword. This former cleric of Torm can be questioned using *speak with dead*. Having succumbed to **Fazrian**'s blood lust, Brythia wishes only to see the planetar redeemed.

#### Treasure

The mace is a *mace of smiting* that belonged to Brythia. Characters who witnessed the ghostly scene in area 7 recognize the mace as the weapon used by the cleric in that vision.

The stone chests once contained coins hidden here by Melairkyn dwarves. The duergar broke open the chests and dumped the coins in a mining cart in area 18d.