# 25. Prisoner of Darkness

The characters are not the only adventurers to have recently explored this level. One of those who came before them has succumbed to the Shadowfell's despair.

#### 25a. Vampiric Guards

Corroded, broken weapons litter this hall, as if a battle had been fought here long ago. Clinging to the ceiling above the eastern door are three **vampire spawn** named Darvanos, Hekella, and Tozu. They guard the prisoner in area 25b and attack anyone they don't recognize.

Hekella carries the key that unlocks the prisoner's shackles in area 25b.

#### 25b. Pantry

>**Mold**. Black mold clings to the walls, and the air is heavy with the scent of rot.
>
>**Prisoner**. A human adventurer named **Portia Dzuth** is chained up to the north. Her armor and equipment lie in a heap to the south.
>

**Portia Dzuth** hails from Rashemen. She is the sole survivor of an adventuring party hired by Lady Wylynd Moonstar of Waterdeep to find **Umbraxakar** the shadow dragon and transform him back into **Glyster** the bronze dragon, friend of House Moonstar. Portia thinks **Umbraxakar**'s curse can be undone by ridding the dragon of its despair, but she has no idea how to accomplish this. She and her companions were captured less than a month ago, but Portia has lost track of time and believes she has been imprisoned in Vanrakdoom for much longer. The **vampire spawn** feed on Portia whenever blood is in short supply, and she has the bite marks to prove it. After each feeding, Keresta charms Portia to keep her calm and under control.

A character can free Portia from her shackles using the key in area 25a, or by picking the lock with thieves' tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. A character can also free Portia by snapping her chains with a successful DC 30 Strength (Athletics) check.

Portia sank into madness and despair after she was forced to watch **Umbraxakar** devour the corpses of her slain companions one by one. She stays close to her rescuers, serving as a loyal follower until she is safely out of Undermountain or until Keresta asks her to betray them. While fighting on the party's side, Portia claims an equal share of all XP gained. She is a **champion** (see *appendix A*), with these changes:

- Portia is lawful neutral and speaks Common.
- She is magically charmed by Keresta and regards the vampire as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. This effect wears off in 12 hours unless Keresta charms her again.
- She suffers from Shadowfell despair manifesting as unshakable dread. Until the despair ends, she has disadvantage on all saving throws and gains the following flaw: "I'm convinced that I'm going to die in Vanrakdoom." She can attempt to end her despair each time she finishes a long rest, doing so with a successful DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. A *calm emotions* spell also ends her despair, as does any spell or other magical effect that removes a curse.