# 26. Vampire Boss

If the characters haven't already encountered and defeated **Keresta Delvingstone**, she's here when they arrive (see "Keresta Delvingstone"). The vampire is not alone. The room's features are as follows:

>**Ceiling**. The 30-foot-high ceiling is supported by two thick stone columns that have rusty iron torch brackets mounted to them.
>
>**Vampires in the Fog**. The floor is heavily obscured by a 2-foot-deep blanket of fog. Nine **vampire spawn** crawl under the fog and try to remain hidden until Keresta commands them to attack.
>
>**Keresta Delvingstone**. Keresta looks like a pale woman with a large dragon tattoo imprinted on her pale skin. She stands in the middle of the room, studying a large piece of parchment spread across a wooden table in front of her. Looming behind her is Thagor, an 18-foot-tall **abominable yeti** that serves as her protector.
>

The haughty Keresta welcomes the characters to their doom and promises them a swift death. If asked about Lord Vanrak Moonstar or **Umbraxakar**, Keresta laughs and says that Shar's darkness consumes all things in the end.

If reduced to 0 hit points, Keresta turns to mist and retreats to her resting place in area 31 (via area 30). In mist form, she can pass through the cracks under doors and blend in with the fog to become effectively invisible.

The abominable yeti and the **vampire spawn** fight to the death to protect Keresta, as does **Portia Dzuth** (see area 25b) if she is present and still charmed by Keresta. The squad of **vampire spawn** is composed of adventurers and cultists who have been turned into undead by Keresta. Their names are Aryk, Bartho, Callia, Gaston, Hector, Ilsuban, Nath, Rhylzar, and Rose.

The parchment on the table is a map of Waterdeep, drained of color like everything else in this part of Vanrakdoom. A quill pen and several ink pots rest nearby. Two daggers stuck in the map mark the Spires of the Morning (the temple of Lathander in the Castle Ward) and the House of the Moon (the temple of Selûne in the Sea Ward). Written around them are the names of various clerics and paladins of Lathander and Selûne whom Keresta plans to assassinate.