# 27. Mark of Death

Halaster captured a dwarf vampire named **Zorak Lightdrinker** and magically bound him here.

>**Open Pit**. A 20-foot-long, 40-foot-deep pit spans the width of the corridor. Blood stains the pit's sheer walls, which are too smooth to climb without climbing gear, magic, or a trait such as Spider Climb.
>
>**Sarcophagus**. At the bottom of the pit rests a 6-foot-long, 3-foot-wide alabaster sarcophagus draped in cobwebs. Its lid is carved to resemble a giant bat with folded wings. (The sarcophagus contains a vampire.) Floating above the vessel is a magic rune that glows as bright as a candle flame.
>

A character who understands Dwarvish recognizes the glowing, magical rune as a dwarven symbol of death (identical to the one inscribed on the door to area 14a). The first time a creature crosses from one side of the pit to the other, the rune disappears and imprints itself as a death mark on a visible portion of the creature's face or body. The mark disappears when its bearer dies or when the vampire is destroyed. Only a *wish* spell or a deity can remove a death mark otherwise.

The sarcophagus at the bottom of the pit is a 2,000-pound chunk of hollowed-out alabaster. **Zorak Lightdrinker**, a vampire in mist form, is trapped inside. When the death mark is imprinted on a creature, the sarcophagus crumbles to dust and Zorak is released. The sarcophagus is otherwise indestructible.

A *geas* spell cast by Halaster compels Zorak to hunt down and destroy the creature bearing the death mark, singling out that target above all others. Zorak knows the exact location of the marked creature while the two of them are on the same plane of existence. Slaying the bearer of the death mark frees Zorak from Halaster's *geas* spell, whereupon the vampire seeks to return to his true lair in the Underdark.

If a successful *dispel magic* spell is cast on the rune (DC 19) before it imprints on a creature, the rune disappears for 1 minute, allowing creatures to cross the pit in the meantime without the rune imprinting on any of them.

#### Dwarf Vampire

**Zorak Lightdrinker** is a shield dwarf **vampire**, with a challenge rating of 14 (11,500 XP) and these additional changes:

- Zorak has these racial traits: He speaks Common and Dwarvish. He has resistance to poison damage and advantage on saving throws against poison.
- He wears plate armor (AC 18), wields a *dwarven thrower*, and gains the action options described below.

***Multiattack.*** Zorak makes two attacks with his *dwarven thrower*, only one of which can be a ranged attack.

***Dwarven Thrower.*** *Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack*: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. *Hit*: 11 (1d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, or 12 (1d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage when used with two hands to make a melee attack. On a ranged attack that hits, the hammer deals an extra 1d8 bludgeoning damage (2d8 if the target is a giant). *Hit or Miss*: If thrown, the weapon flies back to Zorak's hand after the attack.