# 27. Rantantar's Wand

This room serves as a parlor where Halaster entertains guests (infrequent though they may be).

>**Furnishings**. Ornate wooden chairs with padded seats and backrests line the walls. Between the chairs stand alabaster busts of Halaster atop wooden pedestals.
>
>**Wand**. Lying on the floor in the middle of the room is a 20-foot-diameter, frayed circular rug adorned with Halaster's personal rune. Floating 10 feet above the rug is a golden wand with spinning orbs of colored glass at one end (see "Treasure" below). It attacks any creature that enters the room unaccompanied by Halaster.
>

#### Treasure

Following the destruction of Rantantar, one of his oldest apprentices, Halaster recovered the dead archmage's *wand of wonder*—only to discover that Rantantar had somehow bound his evil spirit inside it. The spirit can do nothing other than animate and discharge the wand, which currently has 7 charges.

The **animated wand** has the statistics of a **Tiny animated object** (see the *animate objects* spell description in the *Player's Handbook*). As an action, the **animated wand** can expend 1 of its charges and target a random creature with one of its randomly determined effects. Any such effect that would target the wand's user targets the wand instead. If reduced to 0 hit points, the wand crumbles into dust and is destroyed.

A *dispel evil and good* spell cast on the wand rids it of Rantantar's evil spirit, whereupon the wand clatters to the floor and becomes an inanimate *wand of wonder*. An *antimagic field* spell suppresses the wand's magic but doesn't oust the spirit lodged inside it.

If the **animated wand** is grabbed while Rantantar's spirit is lodged inside it, a contest of wills ensues. The creature grabbing the wand must immediately make a DC 20 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is forced to release the wand. On a successful save, the wand becomes inanimate until the creature lets go of it. If a spellcaster holds the wand long enough to become attuned to it, that act banishes Rantantar's evil spirit from the wand forever.