# 28. Statue of Tharmekhûl

A 12-foot-tall stone statue with *continual flame* spells cast on its eyes stands facing the exit in the middle of this 20-foot-high, domed chamber. The statue represents Tharmekhûl, the dwarven god of fire and molten rock. It holds an obsidian greataxe above its head. A steel plaque at the base of the statue reads in Dwarvish, "Fire is the cure."

The statue can't be budged or damaged. A *detect magic* spell reveals powerful auras of abjuration and transmutation magic surrounding both the statue and the axe, which can't be separated from one another.

#### Teleport Trap

This trap fills the 10-foot square directly in front of the statue. A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20 | Teleport Destination          |
|:----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–3 | The teleport trap in area 5b  |
|  4–6 | The teleport trap in area 11  |
| 7–20 | The teleport trap in area 40c |

***Additional Effect: Shearing Flame.*** When a creature is teleported to this location from another teleport trap, a disembodied voice shouts, "Teleported!" at the same moment the statue of Tharmekhûl animates and takes a swing at the creature. Flames spread across its obsidian axe as it slashes. The axe is considered a magic weapon in the statue's grasp. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 16 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage plus 11 (2d10) fire damage. After swinging the axe once, the statue reverts to its inanimate state until the trap is triggered again.