# 29. Trapped Halls

an unusual pit and an unusual painting await adventurers in these tunnels.

#### 29a. Pit of Brown Mold

This hidden pit (see "Covered Pits") is 50 feet deep, but the floor of the pit is lined with a 10-foot-square patch of brown mold. A creature that falls the distance takes 17 (5d6) bludgeoning damage plus damage from the brown mold (see "*Dungeon Hazards*" in chapter 5 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*).

#### 29b. Underbrew in Chains

Affixed to the back wall of the western alcove is a stone-framed painting of a scarred male dwarf wearing black plate armor. He is bound by heavy iron chains and shackles anchored to the floor of a dreary dungeon cell. The painting is 3½ feet wide by 7 feet tall.

Thanks to a permanent *Nystul's magic aura* spell cast on the painting, a *detect magic* spell does not reveal that the painting is magical. It is a magical prison that can hold one humanoid creature at a time. The first humanoid creature that approaches within 5 feet of the painting must succeed on a DC 22 Charisma saving throw or be magically pulled into it, switching places with the dwarf currently trapped inside (see below). A humanoid drawn into the painting finds itself chained in an extradimensional cell 10 feet on a side. While trapped in the cell, the creature is paralyzed. The painting has AC 11, 4 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Destroying it frees the trapped creature, which appears in the closest unoccupied space adjacent to the painting.

***Thwad Underbrew.*** The dwarf in the painting is a beard-stroking villain named **Thwad Underbrew**, a former champion of Gorm Gulthyn (the dwarven god of vigilance) who long ago set out to rid Undermountain of the evil that is **Halaster Blackcloak**. Halaster defeated Underbrew but offered to spare the dwarf's life if he vowed to serve the Mad Mage as an enforcer, ridding the dungeon of other invaders. Unwilling to face his own mortal end, Underbrew made this vow and convinced himself over time that the executions he performed were acts of mercy, because those he killed would never be forced to turn against their beliefs as he had. In time, these acts stopped weighing on Underbrew's conscience. In fact, the dwarf began to enjoy his grisly work.

**Thwad Underbrew** is a shield dwarf **champion** (see *appendix A*), with these changes:

- Underbrew is neutral evil.
- Instead of a greatsword, he wields a maul (which deals bludgeoning damage instead of slashing damage).
- He has these racial traits: He speaks Common and Dwarvish. He has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet, resistance to poison damage, and advantage on saving throws against poison.