# 3. Main Cavern

Githyanki twins named Arbez and Surlock are contained within crystal stalactites in this cavern.

#### 3a. Arbez's Watch

The creatures in area 3b investigate any disturbance in this portion of the cavern, which contains the following:

>**Crystal Stalactite**. A 10-foot-long crystal stalactite hangs above a pit filled with silvery mist. Encased in the stalactite is Arbez, a male **githyanki gish** (see *appendix A* for statistics; see also "Crystal Stalactites").
>
>**Straw Dummies**. Five freestanding straw dummies with the rough forms of mind flayers (marked X on map 16) stand north of the pit.
>

Creatures that fall into the pit are immediately transported to the Astral Plane (see *chapter 2* of the *Dungeon Master's Guide* for more information).

Githyanki warriors use the straw dummies as targets in combat training exercises. Each is a Medium object with AC 10, 10 hit points, immunity to poison and psychic damage, and vulnerability to fire damage.

> ##### Crystal Stalactites
>
>Four githyanki gish (see *appendix A*) are encased in transparent crystal stalactites in areas 2, area 3, and area 6. While encased, these githyanki remain aware of their surroundings but don't require air, food, or water. Until the crystal around them is destroyed, they can't be targeted by attacks or subjected to magical effects. Moreover, they are restrained and can't use their War Magic feature or make longsword attacks. They cast spells through the crystal as though it wasn't there.
>
>Each crystal stalactite is a Large inanimate object with AC 15, 80 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. A stalactite reduced to 0 hit points shatters, freeing the githyanki within. A githyanki whose stalactite is destroyed is no longer restrained by it and falls into the pit of silvery mist below it, whereupon it returns to the Astral Plane.
>

#### 3b. Surlock's Watch

>**Crystal Stalactite**. A 10-foot-long crystal stalactite hangs above a pit filled with silvery mist. Encased in the stalactite is Surlock, a male **githyanki gish** (see *appendix A* for statistics; see also the "Crystal Stalactites" sidebar).
>
>**Knight and Dragon**. Near the eastern edge of the pit, a female **githyanki knight** named Deslarr sits astride Ashranthax, a female **young red dragon**.
>

If they are not alerted to the characters' presence, Deslarr and the dragon chat in Draconic about how many illithids they must kill to prove themselves worthy of "**Al'chaia**'s magic books." They fight to the death.

Creatures that fall into the pit are immediately transported to the Astral Plane (see *chapter 2* of the *Dungeon Master's Guide* for more information).

***Treasure.*** Deslarr carries a *Stardock rod* (see "Stardock Rods"). Her plate armor is set with eight black jaspers (50 gp each) and eight amber gemstones (100 gp each).