# 30. Halaster's Handiwork

The challenges that await adventurers in these areas can be directly attributed to the Mad Mage.

#### 30a. Netherskull's Biographer

>**Arch**. A stone arch decorated with gold-inlaid images of soaring dragons is embedded in the middle of the north wall, atop a 3-foot-high red marble dais. Carved into the wall above the arch are the following words in Draconic: "Only a dragon can unlock this gate."
>
>**Gong**. A 3-foot-diameter bronze gong hangs from a sturdy wooden frame anchored to the floor near the west wall. The gong is embossed with carvings of ears of corn. A padded wooden mallet dangles from a hook on one of the support posts.
>
>**Monsters**. Sitting on the steps of the dais, scribbling madly in a journal with a quill pen, is a wretchedly pale man in a dusty black robe. He is watched over by two invisible **nycaloths**.
>

To flatter Netherskull, Halaster assigned a would-be apprentice to chronicle the death tyrant's history in a series of journals. This biographer is a skittish, ill-bred, and unkempt male human in his thirties named **Kavil** Mereshanter. **Kavil** is a **mage**, with these changes:

- **Kavil** is neutral evil.
- He speaks Dwarvish, Common, Giant, and Undercommon.

**Kavil** was denied admittance to Dweomercore (*level 9*), and Halaster robbed him of his spellbook. The Mad Mage has promised to return the book once **Kavil** completes his work. (In fact, Halaster has misplaced the spellbook, though **Kavil** is unaware of this.)

As Netherskull's appointed biographer, **Kavil** is expected to earn the death tyrant's trust, but Netherskull trusts no wizard, and has been reluctant to grant interviews. **Kavil** has instead filled one journal after another with his own narrative concoctions and self-pitying asides. The biography is a mostly fictionalized, somewhat sensationalized version of Netherskull's life, death, and undeath. **Kavil** knows that anyone who reads this drivel won't be fooled, but he's hoping the deluge of words will impress Halaster while simultaneously discouraging close examination of the work.

**Kavil** won't start a fight, but he sides with the nycaloths if a battle erupts, which is likely since the fiends have orders to slay intruders. If reduced to 33 hit points or fewer, **Kavil** switches sides and offers information in exchange for his life. He knows one random Undermountain secret, determined by drawing a card from the Secrets Deck (see *appendix C*), as well as a secret way into Netherskull's lair (see area 39b). **Kavil** isn't aware of the secret door that leads to area 30b.

Characters who spend at least 10 minutes poring over **Kavil**'s journal can piece together bits of Netherskull's history and, with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check, separate out **Kavil**'s gibberish to learn the following truths:

- The beholder's true name is unknown. It changed its name to Netherskull after becoming a death tyrant.
- Netherskull has slain countless interlopers, none more deserving of death than a pompous human paladin named **Fidelio**, who wept bitter tears before his disintegration.
- Netherskull's primary goals are to destroy Halaster and take over Undermountain.

***Arch Gate to Level 18.*** The arch in the north wall is one of Halaster's magic gates (see "Gates"). The arch's gold inlay can't be removed. The rules of this gate are as follows:

- The gate opens for 1 minute when a real or illusory dragon touches the arch. An artistic rendering of a dragon, such as a dragon-shaped figurine or a drawing of a dragon, also opens the gate.
- Characters must be at least 15th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 16 on level 18, in the closest unoccupied space next to the identical gate located there.

***Gong.*** A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of conjuration magic around the gong. If the gong is struck with the mallet, three items appear on the floor before it: a small clay bowl filled with bland, edible food (hunks of bread and cheese, strips of meat, and dried nuts); an empty tin cup; and a glass carafe containing 1 gallon of water. The items disappear after 1 hour. Removing any of these items from the room also causes them to vanish. Once it is used to summon food and water, the gong can't do so again until the next dawn. If the gong is taken from this room, it loses its magical property.

#### 30b. Play-by-Play Generator

This dusty room has a 10-foot-high ceiling. A 3-foot cube composed of equal parts adamantine and flesh sits atop a 3-foot-tall hexagonal plinth of carved stone. The surface of the cube facing the secret door bears Halaster's fleshy, grimacing visage.

Disturbing the cube causes it to sprout spindly arms, legs, and wings. It then fights until destroyed. It has the statistics of a **quadrone**, with these changes:

- The cube is chaotic evil.
- It speaks Common and is the source of Halaster's play-by-play (see "Halaster's Play-by-Play").
- Whenever it would normally make a shortbow attack, it instead hurls a magic dart at a target it can see up to 60 feet away from it. Each dart hits its target automatically (no attack roll required) for 5 (2d4) force damage.

As the cube attacks, it continues its play-by-play routine, commentating its battle with the adventurers. Destroying the cube ends the play-by-play throughout the Obstacle Course.

***Hidden Key.*** A secret compartment is hidden atop the hexagonal plinth. Finding it requires a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. It contains a 6-inch-long key carved from a dragon's finger bone, shaped like an H. This key, which is identical to the one in area 19, unlocks the doors to area 39c.