# 30. Lower Halls

The staircase from tier 2 ends before these halls, which look older than the rest of Shadowdusk Hold.

#### 30a. Shadowdusk Hall

>**House Crest**. Set into the middle of the floor is a 20-foot-diameter disk of purple stone, inscribed upon which is the Shadowdusk crest: a lit torch with three trailing embers, its orange flame pointed toward the double door to the west.
>
>**Mosaics**. The 40-foot-high, vaulted ceiling bears peeling mosaics of cloudy, dramatically lit skies.
>
>**Scorch Marks**. The walls and pillars have numerous scorch marks.
>
>**Statues**. Four 8-foot-tall statues of human nobles stand in wide alcoves to the north and south.
>

A character who succeeds on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check can ascertain that the scorch marks on the walls and pillars were made by a blue dragon's breath weapon. Years ago, Halaster lured a dracolich named Lynnorax to Shadowdusk Hold. Dezmyr and Zalthar pressed the dracolich into service. The dracolich waits for intruders in area 40 and guards the death knights' vault (area 41).

The statues in the northern alcoves depict Arandraya and Maelweene Shadowdusk. The statues to the south depict their brother, Xerrion, and their other sister, Yarlithra. Each statue stands atop a 2-foot-high block of stone that bears an inscription of the noble's name.

***Secret Door.*** A locked secret door is hidden in the wall next to the statue of Xerrion in the southwest alcove. A character who examines the statue and succeeds on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check notices that one of the rings on Xerrion's left hand can be twisted around his finger. Turning the ring unlocks the secret door and causes it to swing open into area 37.

#### 30b. Family Crypts

This arched, 15-foot-high hall is lined with alcoves. Each alcove contains a dusty stone casket holding the remains of a dead Shadowdusk family member, but no treasure.