# 31. Hall of Embers

>**Brazier**. A 5-foot-tall, 7-foot-diameter stone brazier dominates the northwest part of the room. Eight embers gather and swirl above the empty brazier like fireflies.
>
>**Statue**. A 3-foot-tall, 5-foot-long statue of a giant toad sits beside a 10-foot-square, 50-foot-deep open pit in the southeastern part of the room.
>
>**Alcove**. An empty alcove to the north contains a teleport trap (see "Teleport Traps").
>

#### Brazier

The eight embers swirling above the brazier radiate auras of conjuration and transmutation magic under the scrutiny of a *detect magic* spell or similar magic.

The embers easily slip through the grasp of *mage hand* spells and other magical effects, but a creature within reach of the brazier can use an action to try to catch an ember, doing so with a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Catching an ember causes it to vanish and triggers a random magical effect, determined by rolling a d6 and consulting the Magic Embers table. Any creature that gains a benefit also gains awareness of that benefit. Embers that are caught do not reappear.

##### Magic Embers
|  d6 | Magical Effect                                                                                                                                                                        |
|:---:|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  1  | The creature that caught the ember gains immunity to fire damage for the next 24 hours.                                                                                               |
|  2  | The ember becomes a single bead from a *necklace of *fireballs**.                                                                                                                     |
|  3  | The creature that caught the ember gains the ability to speak and understand Ignan for the next 24 hours (useful for communicating with the mephits and lava children on this level). |
|  4  | The ember becomes an *elemental gem* (fire).                                                                                                                                          |
|  5  | The ember becomes a diamond worth 5,000 gp.                                                                                                                                           |
|  6  | The ember becomes a tiny iron key that unlocks the jaws of the giant toad statue.                                                                                                     |

#### Giant Toad Statue

The giant toad statue merges seamlessly with the floor and can't be moved. A character who inspects the statue and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices two things: the statue's jaws are hinged but locked shut, and a tiny keyhole is positioned just above its bulbous eyes. Inserting the proper key into the keyhole causes the statue's hinged mouth to open, as does a *knock* spell or similar magic. The mouth can also be opened by a character using thieves' tools who succeeds on a DC 20 Dexterity check.

Opening the statue's mouth causes a 50-foot rope ladder to tumble out, extending all the way to the bottom of the pit. The ladder is securely attached to a stone bar lodged in the toad's throat, and characters can use it to safely climb in and out of the pit.

#### Open Pit

This 50-foot-deep pit has walls too smooth to climb without climbing gear or a special climbing trait such as Spider Climb. An antimagic field like that created by an *antimagic field* spell fills the uppermost 40 feet of the pit, leaving a 10-foot cube at the bottom unaffected.

***Treasure.*** Any magic items teleported away by the **statue of Vergadain** in area 23 or by the teleport trap in this room lie unharmed at the bottom of the pit.

#### Teleport Trap

This trap fills the alcove. A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination          |
|:-----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–12 | The teleport trap in area 26  |
| 13–20 | The teleport trap in area 36a |

***Additional Effect: Magic Item Theft.*** When a creature is teleported to this location from another teleport trap, any magic items in its possession are teleported to the bottom of the pit in this room.