# 31. Illithid's Assistant

This room was reserved for **Arcturia**'s mind flayer assistant, which met a grisly end in area 29. It has the following features:

>**Decor**. The stone walls are sculpted to resemble tentacles entwining around and through bleached human skulls embedded in the stone.
>
>**Slime Pool**. In the middle of the floor is a shallow oval pool filled with dark, foul-smelling slime. (The slime has a soothing effect on mind flayers but no magical properties to speak of.)
>
>**Assistant**. Standing in the eastern corner of the room, facing the corner, is a male human wearing nothing but a leather harness and a loincloth.
>

The harness-wearing human is Ellix Gaspar (NE male Tethyrian human **mage** with no spells prepared). He holds a half-eaten loaf of bread. **Arcturia** pulled him out of Dweomercore (*level 9*) a few months ago to serve as her assistant, only to find him too obnoxious to bear. She cast a *feeblemind* spell on him and gave him to her mind flayer assistant, who promptly forced him to don new apparel befitting his station.

In his current state, Ellix is vacant-eyed and barely responsive, with a tendency to trip over his own feet and drool uncontrollably. He has a tenday left before he can attempt another saving throw to end the *feeblemind* effect. If he regains his senses, he smartly tries to flee Undermountain with the last shreds of his sanity and dignity. He doesn't know what happened to his spellbook (**Arcturia** hid it in area 40b), but once his faculties return, he recalls the layout of this level and how to return to the surface.