# 31. Vampire's Tomb

>**Sarcophagus**. A lidless amethyst sarcophagus stands atop a 1-foot-high stone bier near the south wall of this 30-foot-high, vaulted chamber. An *antipathy/sympathy* spell protects the sarcophagus and tries to repel humanoids with its antipathy effect.
>
>**Mural**. A 20-foot-square bas-relief mural dominates the east wall and covers a secret door.
>

#### Amethyst Sarcophagus

The sarcophagus is a Large object weighing 1,100 pounds. It has AC 17, 80 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. It contains a bed of grave dirt upon which Keresta sleeps. If reduced to 0 hit points and allowed to retreat here in mist form, Keresta returns to this sarcophagus and remains here, paralyzed in vampire form for 1 hour. At the end of the hour, she regains 1 hit point and is no longer paralyzed. She waits here until her Regeneration trait returns her to full hit points, then gathers her forces (including **Umbraxakar**) and sets out to destroy any enemies still in Vanrakdoom.

***Treasure.*** For every point of damage the sarcophagus takes, a piece of it breaks off. Each piece weighs 13 pounds and is worth 100 gp. Eighty pieces can be gathered if the sarcophagus is destroyed.

#### Bas-Relief Mural

The mural depicts Lord Vanrak Moonstar as a skeletal death knight, riding on the back of **Umbraxakar**, the shadow dragon. Lying at the dragon's feet are piles of withered corpses with hideous shadows hovering over them. Characters who examine the mural closely and succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notice four 1-inch-diameter holes bored into some of the corpses. Keresta uses these holes to pass through the wall in mist form.

***Secret Door.*** The mural covers a stone secret door functionally identical to the one in area 30a.