# 32. Umbraxakar's Lair

**Umbraxakar** the shadow dragon dwells here and cannot be surprised by the characters, whose presence he has sensed since they first stepped into the Shadowfell.

Characters who experienced the vision in area 17 recognize this hall as the same one seen in that vision. The hall contains the following:

>**Shadows**. The 40-foot-high vaulted ceiling is buttressed by eight stone columns, around which gather eleven **shadows** and four **shadow assassins** (see *appendix A*) under **Umbraxakar**'s command. (These undead act immediately after the dragon in the initiative count.)
>
>**Dragon's Dais**. To the south, stone steps climb 10 feet to a dais, where **Umbraxakar** is perched.
>
>**Statues**. A double door at the back of the dais is flanked by two 20-foot-tall, black marble statues, one depicting Shar as a cloaked woman wielding a dagger in each hand and the other showing **Halaster Blackcloak** clutching a staff. The statues glare at one another like mortal enemies.
>

#### Shadow Dragon

**Umbraxakar** is a Huge **adult bronze dragon** with the shadow dragon template, which causes the following changes to his statistics:

- **Umbraxakar** is neutral evil.
- He has resistance to necrotic damage. While in dim light or darkness, he has resistance to all damage that isn't force, psychic, or radiant, and he can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
- His Stealth skill modifier is +10.
- While in sunlight, he has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
- His Lightning Breath becomes Shadow Breath, dealing necrotic damage instead of lightning damage. A humanoid reduced to 0 hit points by this damage dies, and an undead **shadow** rises from its corpse and acts immediately after **Umbraxakar** in the initiative count. The shadow is under **Umbraxakar**'s control.

**Umbraxakar** and the shadows under his command try to destroy intruders as quickly as possible, enabling the shadow dragon to revel in their misery rather than his own.

***Umbraxakar's Despair.*** The dragon has spent more than a century lamenting the fall of Vanrak Moonstar, his friend. As the dragon ages and becomes more powerful, his despair causes Vanrakdoom to sink deeper into the Shadowfell. Halaster has made no effort to prevent this from happening because it intrigues him to see part of Undermountain pulled away in such a manner. He's happy to let adventurers kill the dragon and return **Umbraxakar**'s shadowy domain to Undermountain where it belongs.

Characters can try to turn **Umbraxakar** back into a bronze dragon by ending his despair and breaking Shar's hold over him. To accomplish this, they must present the shadow dragon with items he cherishes and succeed on three separate ability checks to lift his spirits (see below). If they fail more than one such check, they won't have enough gifts left to turn the shadow dragon back into a bronze dragon.

As an action, a character can give **Umbraxakar** a gift that holds emotional significance for the dragon. Four such items can be found in Vanrakdoom:

- Vanrak's polished coral ring in area 5 (a symbol of friendship)
- Vanrak's *sun blade* in area 8 (a symbol of light)
- Vanrak's *mithral armor* in area 15 (a symbol of preservation and resilience)
- The gold horn in area 17 (a symbol of guilt)

While gifting one of these items, the character must speak sympathetic words to the dragon and succeed on a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check. Other characters can't help on this check; it is made with advantage, however, if the character claims to be an emissary of House Moonstar or refers to the dragon by his true name, **Glyster**. If the character tries to deceive the dragon in any way, replace the Persuasion check with a DC 20 Charisma (Deception) check. On a failed check, the dragon is not swayed by the characters' words but still keeps the gift.

With each successful check, the dragon becomes visibly more conflicted as moonlight magically flickers across his scales, making them appear more solid and less translucent. A character who sees this magical moonlight can sense, with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check, that it's of divine origin. (The moonlight is a blessing from Selûne, though there's no way for the characters to confirm this.)

Three successful checks are needed to rid the dragon of his despair, whereupon he dismisses any remaining undead under his command, causing them to vanish and never return. His spirits lifted by the characters' gifts and words, **Umbraxakar** changes back into an **adult bronze dragon**, returns the characters' gifts, and insists on being called **Glyster** henceforth. He offers to help the characters clear out the rest of Vanrakdoom as well as to explore deeper levels of Undermountain in the hope of finding a gate that he can use to escape from Undermountain. **Glyster** would like to take his collected treasures with him (see area 33) and offers the characters a few choice items if they help him transport the hoard.

**Glyster** is an archetypal bronze dragon who likes to assume a variety of humanoid and beast forms. For roleplaying guidance, see the "Bronze Dragon" entry in the *Monster Manual*.

#### Out of the Shadowfell

If **Umbraxakar** dies or turns back into a bronze dragon, all areas of Vanrakdoom currently in the Shadowfell immediately return to the Material Plane and become subject to Undermountain's magic-altering effects (see "Alterations to Magic"). The light-dimming effect of the Shadowfell is also lifted, and natural colors are restored, but the stench of death lingers (see "Into the Shadowfell"). The fog encountered throughout Vanrakdoom is not a byproduct of **Umbraxakar**'s despair and remains until Keresta is destroyed.