# 33. Doomcrown's Quarters

**Monsters**. If he hasn't been drawn elsewhere, Doomcrown the **hobgoblin warlord** is here, attended by a **flumph** that speaks to him telepathically.

>**Underdark Model**. Standing about the room are six 7-foot-tall, stalagmite-shaped spires made of tiny rectangular blocks, with a half-finished seventh tower under construction.
>
>**Furnishings**. Furnishings include a wooden bed, an overstuffed leather chair with a matching ottoman, a stone shelf holding a wooden cask of ale, a handsomely carved stone table strewn with mason's tools and bits of stone, and a heavy wooden seafarer's trunk with a smashed lock.
>
>**Tapestry**. On the south wall hangs an old, faded tapestry that depicts a beautiful crystal cavern.
>

A few days after settling in Arcturiadoom, the hobgoblin warlord commanded his underlings to bring him a set of mason's tools. Some old tools were gathered and promptly delivered to him. In the days since, Doomcrown has been carving rectangular blocks of stone (each 2 inches wide, 4 inches long, and 1 inch thick) and using them to build odd, tower-like structures resembling stalagmites. The endeavor has helped alleviate his boredom, even if he doesn't know exactly why he's building them. The answer lies with his strange companion.

Until recently, this flumph surreptitiously fed on the mental energy of **Arcturia**'s mind flayer assistant. The illithid's sudden death (see area 29) cut off the flumph's food supply. Fortunately, it can get by for some time without needing to feed on more psionic energy. It shacked up with Doomcrown and has been trying to convince him to reform. The hobgoblin has proven to be stubbornly, irredeemably evil, but their lengthy telepathic contact has caused Doomcrown to exhibit odd traits, including a subconscious need to recreate the flumph's home—the Underdark—out of building blocks. The flumph knows that its longing to return home is affecting the hobgoblin's behavior, but it relies on Doomcrown for protection. If the two become separated, the flumph opts to return to the Underdark.

The characters can befriend the flumph and coax it into joining the party for a while. It has encountered adventurers in Undermountain before and is generally quite fond of them and their tales of the surface world.

#### Treasure

The wooden trunk contains the hobgoblins' loot: 2,500 gp, an electrum pepper shaker (25 gp), a pewter candlestick (25 gp), a red velvet cape (50 gp), an ornate coral statuette of a ship cresting a wave (250 gp), a dwarven beard comb made of lapis lazuli and set with gemstones (750 gp), a platinum crown with black pearl inlay (2,500 gp), and an elven helm made of leafed gold with a spiral horn of amethyst protruding from its brow (7,500 gp).