# 33. Dragon's Hoard

>**Altar and Rift**. Above an altar of black stone in the middle of this 30-foot-high vault floats a 10-foot-tall, dagger-shaped rift of wispy shadow that moans.
>
>**Statues**. Steps climb to alcoves in the north, west, and south walls. At the back of each alcove is a wooden statue with coins piled around its base.
>

#### Altar and Extradimensional Rift

A *detect magic* spell reveals auras of conjuration magic around the altar and the moaning rift above it. If the altar comes in contact with bright light, four **cloakers** fly out of the rift and attack all other creatures in the room. Once the cloakers emerge, the rift stops moaning.

***Altar.*** Inscriptions carved into the altar are written in a secret language known only to Shar's faithful. A *comprehend languages* spell or similar magic reveals that these inscriptions spell out the core tenets of Shar's faith:

- In darkness, act. Never wait for the darkness to pass before making your move.
- Quench the light of the moon when you can. Hide from it when you can't.
- Keep secrets from all except Shar's faithful.
- Only a fool believes in hope.

The altar is a Large object with AC 17, 50 hit points, vulnerability to radiant damage, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If the altar is destroyed, the shadowy rift collapses, and any creatures trapped in the extradimensional prison beyond are released. They appear in random unoccupied spaces throughout the room.

***Extradimensional Prison.*** Any creature that enters the rift's space is transported to an unoccupied space in an extradimensional prison that takes the form of a 30-foot-diameter cave with no light sources and no exits. If the cloakers haven't been released, they attack any creature that appears in their prison.

Characters can escape the prison with a *plane shift* spell or similar magic. Destroying the altar also releases any trapped creatures, as described above.

#### Statues and Treasure

The statues and their treasures are as follows:

***North Statue.*** This painted wooden statue, 8 feet tall, depicts **Keresta Delvingstone** with her claws outstretched and her fangs bared. Around its neck, the statue wears a large ruby pendant on a gold chain (750 gp), and draped over its shoulders is a *cloak of the bat*. Piled around the base are 13,700 sp.

***South Statue.*** This wooden statue, 10 feet tall, depicts **Umbraxakar** in humanoid form, appearing as a muscular man with charcoal-colored skin, bronze-colored eyes, and dragon wings. Piled around the statue are 9,300 gp.

***West Statue.*** This stone statue stands 9 feet tall and is painted jet black. It depicts Shar as a cloaked woman with a dagger in each hand. A character who searches the statue and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check discovers that one of its daggers is a lever that opens a compartment at the base of the statue. The compartment contains a rolled-up painting of Shar (250 gp) and a vial containing 2 doses of *midnight tears* (see "*Poisons*" in chapter 8 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*). Piled around the statue's base are 22,150 ep.