# 34. Zalthar's Chambers

Zalthar languishes in these chambers, shunning all other creatures except his sister.

#### 34a. Zalthar Shadowdusk

>**Furnishings**. This room is furnished with several chairs and sofas, all covered in dust and cobwebs.
>
>**Easel**. A wooden easel stands in the northeast corner, draped in a black cloth. (Under the cloth, resting on the easel, is a half-finished portrait of Dezmyr as she was in life, lying nude on a bed of tentacles.)
>
>**Zalthar**. Seated in a chair, facing the northern and western doors, is **Zalthar Shadowdusk**—a death knight in black armor. In his withered hands, he holds two tiny painted wooden figurines (busts of himself and his sister as young children, which he took from the fresco in area 19).
>

The adventurers catch Zalthar in a moment of reflection, and he considers their presence an affront. He is a **death knight**, with these changes:

- Zalthar wields a *nine lives stealer* longsword with 5 charges remaining. He has a +13 bonus to hit with the weapon. On a hit, he deals 11 (1d8 + 7) slashing damage, or 12 (1d10 + 7) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 18 (4d8) necrotic damage.
- He has the *locate creature* spell prepared instead of *banishment*.
- He speaks Abyssal, Common, and Deep Speech.

When intruders enter the room, Zalthar stands, draws his sword, and says, "Dezmyr foretold your arrival. I've been waiting for you." He then tries to destroy them.

#### 34b. Black Obelisk

This 20-foot-high room contains a single object: a 15-foot-tall, tapered obelisk of black stone situated in the middle of the room.

The Shadowdusks found the obelisk on another level of Undermountain and brought it here after subjecting it to Far Realm energies. It radiates a strong aura of abjuration magic under the scrutiny of a *detect magic* spell or similar magic, and a paladin using Divine Sense can detect a celestial presence trapped within it.

Characters who have a combined Strength of 60 or higher can topple the obelisk, which is a Huge object with AC 17, 90 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Toppling or destroying the obelisk releases a **couatl** trapped within. The couatl, named Tezca-Zyanya, appears in the form of a Tiny yellow frog. Using its telepathy, the disguised couatl thanks the characters for releasing it. Exposure to the Far Realm has deprived the couatl of its memories, including those that would explain its entrapment and the purpose of the obelisk.

If the party includes no evil characters, Tezca-Zyanya offers to accompany its rescuers and assist them until its services are no longer required. It continues to pass itself off as a frog until circumstances force it to reveal its true form. Trapped in the obelisk for millennia, it knows nothing about Undermountain or Waterdeep.