# 35. Eyes of Stone

This chamber is the only means by which characters can enter *level 23* of Undermountain.

>**Arch**. A stone arch is embedded in the east wall between the two arms of the chamber. The arch's keystone is carved with the visage of Halaster, whose eyes follow any creature that approaches the arch.
>
>**Petrified Beholder**. In the northern arm of the room, a petrified beholder sprawls on its side on the floor.
>

The beholder has been here longer than the Shadowdusks. If released from its petrified state with a *greater restoration* spell or similar magic, it attacks other creatures indiscriminately.

#### Arch Gate to Level 23

The arch is one of Halaster's gates (see "Gates"). Its rules are as follows:

- If any creature touches the arch, the face shouts out in Common: "Yield magic for safe passage!" A stone arm with a flat, outstretched hand then rises from the floor before the arch. If a magic item of at least uncommon rarity is placed into the hand, it sinks back into the floor with the item, which is teleported to Halaster's study in area 37 of level 23. The gate then opens for 1 minute. If an appropriate magic item is not placed in the hand within 10 seconds of its appearance, it points to the nearest creature that Halaster's visage can see. That creature must succeed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw or be petrified.
- Characters must be 17th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 1 on level 23, in the closest unoccupied space next to the similar gate located there.