# 35. Scythe-Seeing

>**Chasm**. The southern end of this chamber has collapsed into a lava-filled chasm (see area 40). Sweltering heat from the lava fills the room.
>
>**Doors**. The northern half of the room is empty except for two doors. The door in the north wall is round and made of adamantine (see area 39c).
>
>**Corpse**. Between the northern and southern halves of the room, where the room is narrowest, a female dwarf has fallen prey to a scythe trap, her dead body pinned between the trap's blades and the western wall. Halaster has placed a teleport trap (see "Teleport Traps") just south of the scythe trap.
>

#### Scythe Trap

If the dead dwarf is disturbed, the scythe blades shatter due to the built-up pressure from the gears hidden in the walls. Any creature within 5 feet of the broken trap must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by flying broken blades for 9 (2d8) slashing damage. A character proficient with thieves' tools can use them to try to safely release the pressure and render the trap harmless, doing so with a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. If this check fails by 5 or more, the trap flies apart as described above.

***Treasure.*** The dead dwarf was an adventuring rogue named Xelba Shunlight. She clutches a shortsword and wears torn and bloody studded leather armor, as well as a dungeoneer's pack (with no rations), a mess kit, a miner's pick, and a random trinket (roll on the *Trinkets* table in chapter 5 of the *Player's Handbook*). Tied to her waist is a hide pouch that contains a *figurine of wondrous power* (onyx dog).

#### Teleport Trap

A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination          |
|:-----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–8  | The teleport trap in area 6   |
|  9–14 | The teleport trap in area 10  |
| 15–20 | The teleport trap in area 24a |