# 36. Looted Vaults

These dwarven vaults were looted long ago. The heavy iron vault doors have all been warped and pulled away from their frames, and they can no longer be closed.

#### 36a. Teleport Trap

A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20 | Teleport Destination        |
|:----:|-----------------------------|
|  1–8 | The teleport trap in area 1 |
| 9–20 | The teleport trap in area 8 |

#### 36b. Gold-Veined Vault

The lead door that once secured this room has been torn open with such force that it's bent and hanging from a single hinge.

This vault was plundered long ago. The 10-foot-high walls are lined with stone bricks veined with gold. A few of the bricks have come loose, revealing thin sheets of lead behind them. These lead sheets are designed to prevent magical senses from piercing the vault.

#### 36c. Obsidian Vault

The lead door that once secured this room is bent inward at the bottom, creating a 3-foot-high triangular hole through which Medium and smaller creatures can fit.

Like area 36b, this vault was plundered long ago. The 10-foot-high walls are lined with obsidian bricks, behind which are thin sheets of lead designed to keep magical senses from peering inside.

#### 36d. Damaged Stone Vault

>**Door**. The lead door that once secured this room has been torn off its hinges and lies on the floor.
>
>**Chasm**. The southwest corner of the chamber has fallen away, revealing a lava-filled chasm (see area 40).
>

The lava children in area 40b like to climb up to this room and leap off the edge into the lava below. If the characters didn't deal with the lava children already, they might encounter one or more of them here.