# 37. Weapon of Mass Disintegration

In the event that her experiments got out of hand or her enemies tracked her down, **Arcturia** built this chamber to purge them all at once while protecting herself and her apprentices (of which she currently has none). The chamber has the following features:

>**Plated Walls**. At the end of a short hallway is a 20-foot-high domed chamber with seven narrow alcoves. Every surface is covered with gleaming mithral plates. Each alcove is brightly lit by the yellow glow of a small crystal dome embedded in its 8-foot-high ceiling.
>
>**Key Shapes**. Set into the mithral-plated walls between the alcoves are six key-shaped indentations at chest height. Each indentation is 6 inches long.
>

Each alcove is 8 feet tall and 4 feet deep, and narrows in width from 3 feet to 1 foot. A *detect magic* spell reveals a strong aura of abjuration magic engulfing each alcove, which is just spacious enough to accommodate a single Medium creature. The crystal dome in the ceiling is the source of the alcove's magic, and destroying its globe renders an alcove dark and powerless. Each dome has AC 11, a damage threshold of 10, 1 hit point, and immunity to acid, fire, poison, and psychic damage.

#### Using the Mithral Keys

Six mithral keys are required to activate the chamber. Each conforms in shape to one of the six indentations in the walls, which are (from left to right, going clockwise around the room): an upside-down Y, a backward J with a small loop at the top, an upside-down F, an upside-down U, a V with a small loop at the bottom, and an H missing its top left stem. When the six keys (located in areas 7, area 10, area 13b, area 27, and area 39a) are placed in their corresponding indentations, a *magic mouth* spell counts down from 20 seconds (in Common). At the end of the countdown, there is an ear-splitting whine, and a powerful spell deals 150 force damage to every creature on level 14 of Undermountain (no saving throw allowed). Any creature reduced to 0 hit points by this effect is immediately disintegrated and reduced to a pile of dust. The spell also disintegrates the six mithral keys.

Creatures that are standing in the lit alcoves when the spell goes off are unharmed, as are creatures inside an antimagic field. (The antimagic fields in areas 4 and area 32 protect the creatures there.)