# 38. Dezmyr's Chambers

Dezmyr dwells here, plotting the conquest of Waterdeep and the destruction of her family's ancient enemies.

#### 38a. Memento Mori

>**Tapestry**. A large tapestry depicting the city of Waterdeep hangs on the east wall.
>
>**Skull**. A charred human skull rests atop a 3-foot-high stone pedestal in front of the tapestry.
>

The charred skull is all that remains of Dezmyr's mother, Yarlithra Shadowdusk, who perished in the blaze that destroyed the original Shadowdusk Hold in Waterdeep. Dezmyr keeps her mother's skull as a memento to remind her of her ambitions and purpose.

***Treasure.*** Examination of the tapestry reveals that all the flags flapping above the city bear the upright Shadowdusk family crest. The tapestry is worth 250 gp and weighs 50 pounds.

#### 38b. Storage

This room contains unused furniture draped in cobwebs, including a canopied bed and a claw-footed armoire. A headless wooden mannequin in the southwest corner wears a dusty yellow ball gown more than a century out of fashion.

#### 38c. Dezmyr's Sanctum

>**Dezmyr**. **Dezmyr Shadowdusk** (see below) stands in the middle of the room, clad in ancient armor and joined by six **wraiths** (her counselors).
>
>**Portraits**. Dozens of framed portraits hang from hooks on the south and west walls. (The portraits represent various members of the Shadowdusk family. All the depictions are warped in subtle ways. Some of the family members have starry eyes, while others have melted flesh or tentacles sprouting from their faces.)
>
>**Fresco**. A 10-foot-square, tiled fresco on the middle of the east wall depicts **Dezmyr** and **Zalthar Shadowdusk** as heavily armored human paladins of Torm, riding on armored horses and brandishing shields. Zalthar's shield is mostly hidden behind his body and horse, but displayed prominently on Dezmyr's shield is the Shadowdusk family crest (a lit, upright torch with three embers trailing off it, set against a purple disk).
>

Dezmyr is so touched by the Far Realm that she speaks in riddles. As soon as one or more characters enter the room, she says, "The stars turn, and a time presents itself." She then draws her sword and attacks, aided by the wraiths. Dezmyr is a **death knight**, with these changes:

- As a bonus action on her turn, Dezmyr can warp reality, undoing damage dealt to herself or another creature that she can see within 20 feet of her. The beneficiary of this warped reality instantly regains 10 hit points.
- She has the *locate creature* spell prepared instead of *banishment*.
- She speaks Abyssal, Common, and Deep Speech.

***Secret Door.*** Set into the east wall, north of the fresco of Dezmyr on horseback, is a locked secret door. Any character who studies the fresco and succeeds on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check can tell that the family crest on Dezmyr's shield can be rotated. Turning it so that the torch is upside down instead of upright unlocks the secret door and causes it to swing open into area 37.