# 39. Arcturia's Boudoirs

Mounted above the double door to these chambers is a 4-foot-diameter, 2-inch-thick disk of black stone upon which is engraved a white symbol depicting a bony human hand. A *detect magic* spell reveals a powerful aura of abjuration magic around the seal.

The seal has AC 17, 30 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If the seal is destroyed, the rakshasa bound to these chambers can escape.

#### 39a. Gold and Black Boudoir

>**Light**. The walls and ceiling are painted gold. Mounted to them are black iron sconces with *continual flame* spells cast on them. These fires cast the entire room in bright, flickering light.
>
>**Carpet and Cushions**. Thick, wall-to-wall carpeting with alternating gold and black zigzagging patterns covers the floor, with a few soft, gold silk cushions strewn about.
>
>**Hammocks**. Two tasseled hammocks are stretched between four black pillars near the east wall. Napping in one of them is a beautiful young man wearing gold sandals and a golden silk skirt. (The man is Alussiarr, a **rakshasa** using a *disguise self* spell to mask its true form.)
>
>**Braziers**. Two braziers made of carved black basalt rest in the middle of the floor. Smoldering blocks of incense in each brazier fill the room with a pungent but pleasant aroma.
>

The rakshasa is bound to these boudoirs and can't travel beyond area 39, even through the use of spells, as long as the circular seal above the doors remains in place. (Spells that would transport the rakshasa away from the area simply fail.) **Arcturia** trapped the rakshasa here years ago and draws blood from the fiend to fuel her terrible transmutation rituals.

Alussiarr has no beef with the adventurers and doesn't want to distress them by revealing its true form. It does, however, ask them to set it free by breaking the seal outside the room. If the characters do so, the rakshasa turns invisible and makes its way out of Undermountain with the goal of working all manner of evil in Waterdeep—but not before telling the heroes where they can find **Arcturia**'s spellbook (area 40b) and phylactery (area 40c), as well as the command word to reveal the bookshelves in area 40b. It also gives them a flat, 6-inch-long mithral key shaped like a Y, and tells them it's one of six keys required to activate the weapon of mass disintegration in area 37. Alussiarr doesn't know where the other five keys are kept.

If the characters haggle with the rakshasa, it also vows to provide up to three additional pieces of useful information in exchange for its freedom, such as the way to *level 15*. If the characters refuse to help Alussiarr, the rakshasa shrugs its shoulders, returns to its nap, and gives them nothing in return. It has waited years to escape—it can wait a few more.

#### 39b. Skull and Bone Boudoir

>**Mosaics**. Gruesome mosaics made from humanoid bones decorate stone-framed panels set into the walls.
>
>**Furnishings**. Arrayed about the room are six divans made of stitched flesh stretched over bone frames and a table made entirely of glued teeth and fangs.
>
>**Arch**. Set into the middle of the south wall is a stone arch. Carved into its keystone are three human-like stick figures holding hands.
>

***Arch Gate to Level 17.*** The arch is one of Halaster's magic gates (see "Gates"). Its rules are as follows:

- If three humanoids hold hands while standing within 5 feet of the gate, it opens for 1 minute.
- Characters must be 14th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 11 on level 17, in the closest unoccupied space next to the identical gate located there.

#### 39c. Crystalight Boudoir

>**Chandeliers**. Four crystal chandeliers hang from the ceiling, bathing the chamber in magical light.
>
>**Harpsichord**. A **living unseen servant** (see *appendix A*) plays a harpsichord in the southeast corner. Because the unseen servant is invisible, the harpsichord seems to be playing by itself.
>
>**Dancers**. Waltzing about the room are a resplendently dressed man and woman. The man wears a gold ruffled shirt and blue trousers, while the woman wears a ruffled blue ball gown and a gold tiara.
>

The living unseen servant plays the harpsichord tirelessly and fights only in self-defense.

A *detect magic* spell reveals auras of transmutation magic around the dancers who, in truth, are a mated pair of **young blue dragons**. The dragons are **Arcturia**'s guests, and their names are Nystalancer and Venasorrn. With the help of **Arcturia**'s magic, they are experiencing what it's like to be human and pay no attention to new arrivals. If the music stops or either of them is touched or harmed by another creature, the dragons revert to their true forms simultaneously and attack. Their clothing and jewelry merge into their new forms. Arcturiadoom is not their lair, and they keep no treasure here.