# 39. Dracolich's Phylactery

The Far Realm has warped the fabric of this chamber and its current occupant. The contents of this 20-foot-high room are as follows:

>**Undulations**. The walls and pillars undulate and bulge, as though the stone were amorphous. (The effect is unnerving but harmless.)
>
>**Statue**. A deep alcove in the north wall contains a life-size statue whose human features seems to change every few seconds (see "Morphing Statue" below).
>
>**Cassiok and Pet**. Facing the statue with its back to the rest of the room is a black-robed creature (**Cassiok Shadowdusk**) leaning heavily on a staff. Next to Cassiok is his loyal pet, a **grick alpha**, and an invisible **gray slaad** that serves as his valet.
>

**Cassiok Shadowdusk** is a middle-aged man transformed by prolonged exposure to the Far Realm. Although his head remains human, his body is that of a giant beetle that walks on its hind legs.

Cassiok is an **archmage**, with these changes:

- He is a chaotic evil aberration who speaks Common, Deep Speech, Infernal, and Undercommon.
- He has the *phantasmal killer* spell prepared instead of *banishment*.
- He wears the gray slaad's control gem (a fist-sized gray gem) on a chain around his neck.
- He wields a *staff of power* that grants him a +2 bonus to Armor Class, spell attack rolls, and saving throws. His insectoid physiology prevents him from making melee attacks with the staff.

Cassiok is insane and attacks anyone who isn't a member of his family. The grick and the gray slaad defend him. If reduced to 20 hit points or fewer, Cassiok uses his next action to break his *staff of power* in a retributive strike, cursing the characters as he does so.

#### Morphing Statue

A *detect magic* spell cast on the statue reveals an aura of transmutation magic surrounding it and a powerful source of necromancy magic deep inside it.

Without significantly changing its mass, the statue shifts form every few seconds, becoming various members of the Shadowdusk family and, every so often, depicting **Halaster Blackcloak** or other humanoid creatures that have come into contact with it over the years. When a humanoid creature touches the statue, it temporarily morphs into that creature before assuming one of its other forms. Regardless of the form the statue takes, its features are slightly deformed, as though carved by an inept sculptor.

***Phylactery.*** Embedded in the heart of the statue is a black sapphire the size of an apple. This gemstone is worth 5,000 gp and serves as the phylactery of Lynnorax the dracolich (see area 40). If the dracolich is slain, its life force becomes trapped in the jewel until it can possess another dragon corpse and rise again. The gem is destroyed if subjected to the fiery breath of an ancient red or gold dragon; it is otherwise impervious to damage. The statue containing the gemstone is a Medium object with AC 17, 40 hit points, and immunity to all damage except force damage.

#### Treasure

In addition to his *staff of power*, Cassiok carries a spellbook bound in green slaad hide. It contains the spells Cassiok has prepared.