# 4. Caught in the Tentacles

>**Ceilings**. The central portion of this chamber has a domed ceiling 20 feet high. Wings to the east and west have 15-foot-high arched ceilings.
>
>**Crevasse**. Orange light and intense heat spill from a crevasse that splits the room nearly in two. (The source of the light is a river of lava 30 feet below, which widens toward the southeast, originating in area 40d.)
>
>**Statues**. Two life-size iron statues of mind flayers sit in opposite corners of the central chamber, facing one another with their tentacles outstretched.
>

Halaster placed the mind flayer statues here and trapped them. A *detect magic* spell reveals auras of abjuration and evocation magic around each one. It doesn't require an ability check to realize that a humanoid head would fit nicely inside each mind flayer's tentacles.

Any humanoid that passes between the statues must succeed on a DC 22 Intelligence saving throw or be charmed by the statues for 1 minute. The charmed creature must use all of its movement on its turn to move toward the nearest statue and stick its head between the tentacles. (A Small humanoid must climb the front of the statue to do so.) Only one creature at a time can place its head between the tentacles. A humanoid that places its head between the tentacles is no longer charmed but is stunned and remains so until another creature separates it from the statue or until the statue is destroyed.

Each statue is rooted to the floor and is a Medium object with AC 19, 40 hit points, and immunity to all damage except force damage.