# 4. Deeper Mines

Driven out of the Underdark by rampaging demons, two fomorians have taken refuge in this depleted mithral mine. The duergar are spying on the fomorians to determine whether they should be eradicated or enslaved.

#### 4a. Invisible Spies

>**Silt**. The floor of this 20-foot-high cave is covered in a 2-inch-thick layer of fine silt in which can be seen giant-sized bare footprints and smaller boot prints.
>
>**Duergar**. Three invisible **duergar** lurk in the cave's eastern alcove.
>

The duergar are spying on the fomorians and trying to remain unseen. If a battle erupts between the characters and the fomorians in these caves, the duergar use the distraction to skulk away and report to Valtagar in area 15. If the characters detect them, the duergar explain their purpose and offer to escort them to Valtagar.

Characters who succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check can identify the bare footprints as belonging to two separate bipedal creatures, both very large and deformed. These tracks crisscross the cave with enough frequency to imply that their makers dwell nearby. A successful check also reveals three sets of dwarf-sized boot prints, allowing the tracker to follow the prints straight to the invisible duergar.

#### 4b. Something Wicked

Two **fomorians** dumped here by Halaster rest at the back of this 20-foot-high cave. These hideously misshapen giants are new to Undermountain and believe the mines are haunted by dwarven ghosts. In actuality, they have been rattled by the sounds of invisible duergar moving about and talking to one another.

The fomorians are tired of licking blood and slime off rocks to fill their bellies, prompting them to attack smaller creatures on sight.

***Treasure.*** At the back of the fomorians' cave are two sacks made of gas spore hide. One sack contains 2,100 cp, 1,590 sp, 480 gp, and the broken pieces of a wooden rocking chair. The other contains thirteen misshapen chunks of yellow quartz (50 gp each) and a rusty iron rowboat anchor that weighs 30 pounds.

#### 4c. Dead-End Loop

This mine tunnel loops back on itself. The floor is littered with slime-covered rocks, which the fomorians have been licking for nourishment.

#### 4d. Dead-End Fork

This tunnel terminates in two dead ends, both heaped with piles of rubble. The west fork once connected with a tunnel to the south, but the roof caved in. The collapse looks recent—within the past month or so.