# 4. Decayed Quarters

This suite of chambers has been destroyed by the creatures now in residence here, all traces of the rooms' previous purposes obliterated.

#### 4a. Grell Nest

A hive-like nest with multiple dark openings fills the southern half of this room. Seven **grells** lurk inside the wet, papery nest and emerge from it to attack intruders.

#### 4b. Mad Creature

>**Nothic**. A **nothic** squats near the east wall, frantically scratching at the stone.
>
>**Scrawls**. Scrawled exhortations in Deep Speech and Undercommon cover the walls, floor, and ceiling.
>

The nothic used to be an apprentice mage named Rhamagant, who served as **Vertrand Shadowdusk**'s assistant (see area 17 for more information about Vertrand). The nothic remembers nothing of its previous life and fights only in self-defense. A character who questions the nothic in a language it understands can glean the following useful information amid its mad ravings:

- This level of Undermountain is called Shadowdusk Hold, and it has three tiers.
- The deeper into Shadowdusk Hold one goes, the closer one gets to the Far Realm.
- There's a secret room on each tier.

The nothic knows the locations of all the secret doors leading to the secret rooms in Shadowdusk Hold (areas area 11, area 23b, and area 37). Any character who can communicate with the nothic can, with a successful DC 20 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check, convince it to accompany the party and point out secret doors. When it comes within 10 feet of a secret door in Shadowdusk Hold, the nothic begins scratching at it while muttering the words "secret door" in Undercommon.