# 4. Myconid Colony

A myconid colony manages to thrive in this area, since the tunnels leading to these caves are too narrow for the Stonecloaks to squeeze through. The myconids must endure the occasional gargoyle attack, however.

The myconids provide strangers with food, water, shelter, and safe passage through their small domain.

#### 4a. Melding Cave

Most of the myconids live in this cave, the ceiling of which is uneven and ranges in height from 15 to 30 feet. The cave's other features are as follows:

>**Moss**. Thick moss grows on the walls and the ceiling.
>
>**Fungi**. The earthen floor gives rise to a forest of fungi, including barrelstalks, timmasks, tongues of madness, and trillimacs (see "Fungi").
>
>**Giant Insects**. Six **giant centipedes** and four **giant fire beetles** are meandering among the fungi.
>
>**Myconids**. The northern alcove is mostly clear of moss and fungi and filled with clouds of spores. Ten **myconid sprouts** and thirteen **myconid adults** gather here in silent meditation.
>

The centipedes and the fire beetles share this delicate ecosystem with the myconids, serving to help control the growth of fungi in the caverns. The light from the fire beetles' carapaces is the cave's only illumination. These creatures are not under the myconids' control and fight only in self-defense.

The myconid sprouts form an inner ring 6 feet in diameter, and the adults are in a protective ring 10 feet in diameter around them. The myconids use their Rapport Spores action option to peacefully meld with one another. Creatures that approach within 10 feet of the outer ring are subject to the spores' effect.

Characters who make telepathic contact with the myconids are greeted warmly. The myconids offer to take visitors to their sovereign (area 4b) or escort them to the edge of their domain. The friendly fungus folk are blissfully unaware of the conflict happening outside their caverns, but they're afraid of the "rock giants" (Halaster's stone golems) and "rock demons" (gargoyles) that dwell in the caves around them.

#### 4b. Friendly Sovereign

>**Sloped Floor**. The cave floor slopes upward, reducing its height from 15 feet near the entrance to 10 feet at its north end.
>
>**Fungi**. Exotic mushrooms sprout from the earthen floor. The walls are lined with ripplebark (see "Fungi").
>
>**Sovereign**. A 9-foot-tall **myconid sovereign** stands near the back of the cave. Its bioluminescent cap sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
>

When not melding with its subjects, the myconid sovereign—named Floot—spends its time cultivating exotic mushrooms and crafting potions. Using its Rapport Spores action option to facilitate telepathic communication, Floot welcomes characters to its domain and offers them two potions as gifts (see "Treasure" below). Floot expects nothing in return, but if the characters are of a mind to reciprocate, the sovereign urges them to destroy any "rock demons" (gargoyles) they encounter, for the good of the myconid colony.

***Treasure.*** Floot offers the characters a *potion of mind reading* and a *potion of superior healing*. Each potion is held in a clay gourd and hidden inside a hollowed-out trillimac (see "Fungi").

#### 4c. Quaggoth Spore Servants

>**Guards**. Five **quaggoth spore servants** gather here.
>
>**Fungi**. The walls are lined with ripplebark (see "Fungi").
>

The animating spores of the myconid sovereign have given the dead quaggoths a semblance of life. While in the presence of one or more myconids, the quaggoth spore servants regard all creatures with detached indifference and refrain from attacking. But they turn hostile if there are no myconids around to pacify them.