# 40. Netherskull's Chasm

The death tyrant carved out this immense chasm using its Disintegration Ray, and Halaster added his own touches by flooding it with lava and confounding magical flight within the chasm.

Spells and magic items that allow creatures to fly are suppressed within the chasm. Any character who enters the chasm under the effect of a *fly* spell or similar magic goes hurtling down into the lava. Spells that slow one's fall (such as *feather fall*) function normally.

Creatures who spend 1 hour or longer in the chasm or in any of the areas open to it are susceptible to the effects of extreme heat (as described in *chapter 5* of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*). The chasm is brightly lit by the lava, which fills the bottom of the chasm to a depth of 20 feet. A creature that enters the lava for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there takes 55 (10d10) fire damage.

The surface of the lava is 30 feet below the floor level of the Obstacle Course. The walls in between are sloped and have abundant handholds and footholds. Climbing them requires a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check; on a check that fails by 5 or more, the creature slips and falls into the lava.

#### 40a. Magma Mephits

Four **magma mephits** lounge in this small lava pool. If the characters parley with the mephits in a language they understand, the mephits try to lure the characters toward area 39c, hoping they'll either kill Netherskull or die in the attempt. The mephits detest the death tyrant and care only about their own well-being.

#### 40b. Lava Children's Pool

Eight **lava children** (see *appendix A*) swim and play in this lava pool. They also climb up to area 36d and do cannonballs into the lava from the top of the 30-foot-high ledge.

#### 40c. Teleport Trap Destination

A creature teleported to this location by another teleport trap appears 30 feet above the lava and immediately plunges into it unless the creature has some way to stop the fall. (Remember that spells and magic items that allow creatures to fly are suppressed within the chasm.)

Unlike other teleport traps in the Obstacle Course, this trap doesn't teleport creatures to other locations.

#### 40d. Magma Mephits' Pool

Six **lava children** (see *appendix A*) and seven **magma mephits** frolic in this lava pool and watch for intruders in areas 18 and area 21. If intruders are detected, the mephits incite the lava children into climbing up the walls to attack the new arrivals, while the mephits use their breath weapons and keep their distance.