# 40. Arcturia's Chambers

**Arcturia** has cleared out an old dwarven crypt and turned it into her private sanctum.

#### 40a. Sentinel Statue

>**Statue**. Standing in the middle of this 30-foot-high room is a life-size statue of a dwarf in plate armor, wearing a bucket helm and standing at attention atop a block of stone that measures 3 feet on a side.
>
>**Secret Door**. Set into the north wall is a secret door that swings open into area 40b.
>

The dwarf statue is inseparable from its base, and its base is inseparable from the floor. If anyone other than **Arcturia** opens the secret door, the statue transforms into a 6-inch-thick wall of stone that bisects the room from east to west, creating separate chambers to the north and south. The wall is permanent. Each 10-foot-square section of it has AC 15, 180 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.

#### 40b. Arcturia's Library

>**Pedestal**. A 5-foot-tall stone pedestal carved in the likeness of a nalfeshnee demon stands near the southern wall.
>
>**Secret Door and Trap**. A secret door in the east wall opens into area 40c. The 10-foot-square space in front of the secret door contains a polymorph trap (see "Polymorph Traps").
>

A *detect magic* spell reveals auras of transmutation magic around the pedestal and rectangular sections of the north wall where hidden bookshelves magically emerge (see "Treasure" below).

The pedestal is a Small object with AC 15, 20 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Under certain conditions, it transforms into a **nalfeshnee** (see area 40c). The pedestal also transforms if it takes damage. With Halaster's help, **Arcturia** pressed the demon into service. Its primary task is to guard the lich's phylactery. While in pedestal form, the demon is unaffected by the weapon of mass disintegration in area 37.

***Treasure.*** When the proper command word is spoken ("palimpsest"), tall stone bookshelves magically protrude from the north wall. The shelves are inaccessible otherwise. Packed into these shelves are dozens of spellbooks that **Arcturia** has accumulated over the years. They contain most of the wizard spells in the *Player's Handbook*, plus any others of your choosing.

All the 8th-level and 9th-level spells that can be found are contained in **Arcturia**'s personal spellbook, which magically changes its appearance each dawn. When first discovered, it has black crystal covers and gold-leaf pages engraved with arcane runes and phrases. The book is titled *Arcturia's Arcane Esoterica: Vol. IX*, and it contains the following spells: *antimagic field*, *astral projection*, *dominate monster*, *feeblemind*, *gate*, *incendiary cloud*, *power word kill*, *power word stun*, *shapechange*, *telepathy*, *true polymorph*, and *wish*.

#### 40c. Arcturia's Phylactery

A niche in the north wall holds a small box made of purple crystal—**Arcturia**'s phylactery. The phylactery does not detect as magical. If the characters remove the phylactery from this room, the demonic pedestal in area 40b transforms into a **nalfeshnee** and attacks them.

Destroying this phylactery leaves **Arcturia** with no means to rejuvenate once her physical form is destroyed. The object can be destroyed only after being digested in the stomach of a mimic for three days. A *legend lore* spell or similar magic reveals the exact method of the phylactery's destruction.