# 5. Antechamber

Several traps and obstacles await visitors to these areas. The ceilings are 10 feet high throughout.

#### 5a. Halaster's Coin

>**Columns**. Six 10-foot-wide columns support the ceiling.
>
>**Gilded Statue**. An alcove in the south wall contains a gilded statue of **Halaster Blackcloak** holding what looks like coins in its outstretched right hand.
>
>**Secret Door**. A northwest alcove contains a secret door that opens into area 5d.
>

The statue holds five gold-painted stone coins in its outstretched hand. Close inspection reveals that one of the coins is loose and can be removed from the statue's hand. Engraved on each side of the loose coin is Halaster's rune. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of abjuration magic around the coin, and an *identify* spell or similar magic reveals its magical property.

When an elder rune triggers within 60 feet of the creature that possesses the coin, the creature can use its reaction and the coin to change the elder rune's bane effect into a boon effect, or vice versa. After the coin is used once, it disappears in a flash, accompanied by Halaster's booming laugh.

#### 5b. Teleport Trap

This trap is located in the far west alcove in the south wall (see "Teleport Traps"). A creature teleported by this trap arrives at a location determined by rolling a d20 and consulting the following table:

|  d20  | Teleport Destination          |
|:-----:|-------------------------------|
|  1–10 | The teleport trap in area 19  |
| 11–15 | The teleport trap in area 28  |
| 16–20 | The teleport trap in area 40c |

#### 5c. Electrified Portcullises

This empty, 30-foot-wide, 10-foot-deep, 10-foot-high chamber is closed off by two humming iron portcullises with 3-inch gaps between their 1-inch-thick bars. A winch on the north wall of the chamber raises and lowers both portcullises simultaneously, but it's beyond the reach of characters standing outside the room. A *mage hand* cantrip or an *unseen servant* spell cannot exert enough force to turn the winch, but a *telekinesis* spell does. A character can also circumvent one or both portcullises using a spell such as *misty step* or *gaseous form*. Any creature that touches either portcullis or passes between its electrified bars takes 22 (4d10) lightning damage, or 44 (8d10) lightning damage if the creature is made of ferrous metal or wearing metal armor.

#### 5d. Deep Duerra's Den

This chamber, hidden behind a secret door, is choked with dust and cobwebs. The room's only feature is a 9-foot-tall stone statue of a cloaked female dwarf, her face half hidden under a cowl. In one outstretched hand, she holds an alien skull, yellowed with age.

The statue depicts Deep Duerra, the duergar god of conquest and psionics. Recognizing this sinister figure requires a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Religion) check; dwarves (including duergar) have advantage on the check. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) check confirms that she is holding the skull of a long-dead mind flayer.

***Treasure.*** A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of illusion magic around the mind flayer skull, and an *identify* spell or similar magic reveals its magical properties. A creature with the skull in its possession is invisible to mind flayers, as is anything the creature is wearing or carrying. The skull crumbles to dust and is destroyed 1d10 days after leaving the statue's grasp.