# 5. Prison Cell

The crystal doors to this room are magically locked, but they open automatically for any creature that carries a *Stardock rod* (see "Stardock Rods"). There are no physical locks to be picked, but a *knock* spell or similar magic also opens a door.

Magic wards in the room prevent any creature from teleporting into or out of it.

#### Marquox

A **mind flayer** named Marquox uses its *levitate* spell to float in the center of this otherwise empty room. It was captured while it searched this level for its companions, Tel'zact and Yeluit (see area 29c).

Marquox doesn't know why the githyanki are keeping it alive, but it knows it won't survive long in their captivity. If the characters don't attack it at once, Marquox proposes a deal. If they free it and help it rescue its companions, Marquox guarantees the party safe passage through level 17. A successful DC 16 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals that the illithid has no intention of making good on its promise. If the githzerai zerths from *level 15* are with the party, they refuse to help the mind flayer and insist that the characters kill it. If the characters choose Marquox over them, the githzerai abandon the party and withdraw to *level 15*.

Marquox knows about Stardock but has never visited the asteroid. It also knows that the gate to Stardock is in area 11, and that a black crystal rod is needed to activate it. If the characters allow it, Marquox follows them to Stardock, fighting alongside them until it reunites with its kin. At that point, the mind flayers either turn against the party (if the characters appear weak) or lure the characters to the mind flayer colony on *level 17*, where Extremiton (the colony's ulitharid leader) can decide what to do with them.