# 6. Duergar Outpost

Areas area 6a through area 6c have 10-foot-high ceilings. Streaks of blood cover their tiled floors and walls.

The duergar stationed in these areas have orders to escort visitors to **Valtagar Steelshadow** in area 15. If combat erupts in one room, the occupants of the other two rooms join the fight. The **duergar** in areas area 17a and area 17b also hear the commotion and investigate, moving 50 feet per round. Valtagar and others in nearby areas might also hear the activity, but they remain where they are.

#### 6a. North Watch Post

Two female **duergar** named Kavalra and Nisha guard this chamber.

#### 6b. South Watch Post

Four **duergar**, two males named Duldor and Grimdor and two females named Marna and Ukzorra, maintain a guard station here.

#### 6c. Command Post

The northern half of the room contains a stone desk and a high-backed chair—furnishings brought here from area 16d. Seated behind the desk is Valtagar's captain of the guard, Rojkarn Ironhead, a **duergar** with 40 hit points. He wears a tall helm bristling with spikes and fitted with a scowling iron mask. He is flanked by two female **duergar** bodyguards named Brona and Ubrix.

Rojkarn is cruel, cantankerous, and blindly loyal to **Valtagar Steelshadow**. It pains him to see Valtagar submit to the evil planetar's will. Rojkarn spends much of his waking hours complaining about how the planetar is nothing but a mad tyrant and ranting about how duergar are meant to rule, not be ruled. With each new tirade, Brona and Ubrix roll their eyes in exasperation.