# 6. Lair of the Mummy Lord

These caves form the lair of a duergar mummy lord named **Gorka Tharn**. Characters who cast spells in these areas or disturb the features of the caverns awaken the mummy lord, allowing the creature to bring its lair actions and regional effects into play (see the "Mummies" entry in the *Monster Manual*). In its lair, the mummy lord has a challenge rating of 16 (15,000 XP).

#### 6a. Toothy Maw

This 20-foot-high cavern resembles a tooth-filled maw because of its numerous stalactites and stalagmites. The plentiful rock formations make it difficult for large and cumbersome creatures to pass through the cavern, so the Stonecloaks avoid this area.

Casting a spell of 1st level or higher in this cavern has a chance of waking the mummy lord equal to the spell's level × 10 percent. If the mummy lord awakens, the duergar mummies in area 6b rise out of their mass grave and emerge from that area, moving to attack all creatures in the mummy lord's lair.

#### 6b. Mass Grave

The floor of packed earth in this 10-foot-high cave is a shallow grave for eight duergar **mummies** (**Gorka Tharn**'s former disciples). The mummies burst out of the ground and attack any creatures that enter this area. If intruders flee, the mummies pursue. If the mummies awaken, so too does **Gorka Tharn**.

#### 6c. Mummy Lord's Crypt

>**Niches**. Niches carved into the walls of this damp 20-foot-high cavern contain hundreds of moldy skulls (a mix of dwarf and duergar). A few fallen skulls rest on the cavern floor.
>
>**Shrine**. A small chamber to the east contains a chipped stone altar with treasure piled around it. The wall behind the altar is painted with a faded mural.
>
>**Alcove**. An alcove to the northwest features a central stalagmite and stalactite, each 8 feet tall and covered with soot drawings of snakes and scorpions.
>

Stealing any of the treasure around the altar or touching the stalagmite automatically awakens **Gorka Tharn**. In addition, casting a spell of 1st level or higher in this cavern has a chance of waking the mummy lord equal to the spell's level × 10 percent.

**Gorka Tharn** was a duergar priest of Laduguer, now transformed into a **mummy lord**, with these changes:

- The mummy lord speaks Dwarvish and Undercommon.
- It has the *stone shape* spell prepared instead of *divination*.
- It has the Enlarge and Invisibility action options described below.

***Enlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).*** For 1 minute, the mummy lord magically increases in size, along with anything it is wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the mummy lord is Large, doubles its damage dice with its Rotting Fist attack, and makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If the mummy lord lacks the room to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible in the space available.

***Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).*** The mummy lord magically turns invisible for up to 1 hour or until it attacks, it casts a spell, it uses its Enlarge, or its concentration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the mummy lord wears or carries is invisible with it.

The stalagmite in the northwest alcove is hollow and serves as **Gorka Tharn**'s sarcophagus. The mummy lord is lodged inside the stalagmite's funnel-shaped interior. When it awakens, the mummy lord uses a *stone shape* spell to create an opening large enough for it to emerge. It destroys any intruders in its lair, then returns to its sarcophagus and its slumber.

At the bottom of the stalagmite's hollow cavity, four 1-foot-tall clay urns contain **Gorka Tharn**'s preserved internal organs, including the mummy lord's shriveled heart. Only by destroying the heart can the characters prevent the mummy lord from rejuvenating. The heart is a Tiny object with AC 5, 25 hit points, and immunity to all damage except fire.

***Stone Altar and Treasure.*** The altar is carved from a single block of granite and dedicated to Laduguer, the evil god of the duergar. The mural painted on the wall behind the altar depicts a shadowy figure cradling a pile of gemstones in its arms. Any character who has an appropriate background or who succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Religion) check confirms that the mural is meant to depict Laduguer.

Piled around the altar are 5,000 cp, 2,300 sp, 470 gp, five flawed diamonds (100 gp each), and an electrum teapot (25 gp). A rusty warhammer is also found among the valuables. It disintegrates the first time it is used to strike anything hard.