# 6. Wizardly Wards

A trapped hall (area 6a) guards two of Halaster's vaults (areas 6b and 6c).

#### 6a. Lightning Pillars

This two-chambered hall has a 20-foot-high ceiling supported by ten copper-plated pillars of iron. The pillars generate arcs of magic lightning, as well as bolts that leap from one pillar to another. Creatures standing outside the hall are safe, as are creatures within the 20-foot-square space marked on map 23. A creature that ends its turn in any other space in the hall is struck by lightning from the nearest pillar and must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

A character who uses an action to study the pillars and succeeds on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check notices a pattern in the lightning discharges and gains advantage on saving throws made against the pillars. In addition, the character identifies the safe space in the middle of the hall.

#### 6b. Angelic Shield

Mounted on the door to this chamber is a bronze knocker shaped like Halaster's mad visage, his beard entwined around the knocker's ring-shaped handle. A tiny bronze plaque mounted below the knocker reads in Common, "Knock first before entering."

Using the knocker triggers a *glyph of warding* spell cast at 8th level. The glyph creates a 20-foot-radius sphere of magical flame. Each creature in the area must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 45 (10d8) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The tiny glyph can be found on the backside of the knocker's handle with a successful DC 22 Intelligence (Investigation) check.

***Shield.*** The room is empty except for a steel shield hanging on the south wall. The shield is cast in the form of a serene, angelic visage wreathed in bronze feathers.

A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of abjuration magic around the otherwise ordinary shield, inside which is trapped a **pit fiend** named Kastzanedes. Any ability that detects the presence of fiends, such as a paladin's Divine Sense class feature, reveals the presence of such a creature bound within the shield.

If an *identify* spell is cast on the shield, or if it is brought within 10 feet of its sister shield in area 9b, the pit fiend is released. It appears within 5 feet of the shield's bearer or in the nearest unoccupied space. The freed pit fiend attacks any other creatures it can see, targeting celestials above all others.

While trapped in the shield, the pit fiend can communicate telepathically with the shield's wielder. It pretends to be a sentient magic item that is unwilling to disclose its secrets, trying to goad the characters into casting *identify* on it. If that tactic doesn't work, the pit fiend tries to talk the shield's wielder into undertaking a quest to find its sister shield. The pit fiend suspects that the other shield is nearby, but does not know its location.

#### 6c. Components Storeroom

This room contains wooden trestle tables laden with material components for spells, including linen-wrapped slabs of butter, casks of licorice root shavings, bottles of snake tongues, a terrarium filled with glowworms, and wax-sealed jars of rotting eggs.