# 7. Crypt Raiders

This 12-foot-high cave contains six **duergar**, three males and three females, who have come up from *level 21* to loot the shrine of Laduguer (area 6c). The male duergar are Klom Xornbane, Skrac Blackskull, and Anchok Muzgardt. The female duergar are Akith Xornbane (Klom's sister), Garlynth Ironhead, and Xarta Muzgardt (Anchok's sister). The duergar are hard to tell apart, since all of them wear mean-looking iron bucket helms with visors.

Having slipped past the Stonecloaks and the gargoyles in areas 8 and area 9, these duergar have just started a short rest to recharge their Invisibility when the characters happen upon them. The hateful, xenophobic duergar enlarge themselves and attack. They are too stubborn and determined to back down or surrender.

Each duergar carries a small gray sack holding 5 days of rations, and a large, empty gray sack to carry loot from the shrine.

A character who interrogates a duergar captive and succeeds on a DC 20 Charisma (Intimidation) check learns the following information:

- The duergar live in the Deep Mines (another name for the *Terminus Level*), the next level down from the Runestone Caverns.
- The Deep Mines are ruled by **Fazrian**, a "bald, green-skinned giant with glowing eyes and white-feathered wings." Any character who succeeds on a DC 18 Intelligence (Religion) check realizes, based on this description, that **Fazrian** is a planetar.
- The duergar have come to plunder a shrine of Laduguer on this level, then return to the Deep Mines with loot to earn **Fazrian**'s favor. They know the shrine's location (area 6c) but nothing about the mummy lord that guards it.