# 7. Fidelio's Folly

>**Chasm**. This partially destroyed room is dimly lit by the lava at the bottom of the nearby chasm (see area 40). Past the chasm's ledge is a spectral bridge that connects two other partially destroyed chambers (see area 16).
>
>**Peeling Paint**. The vibrant green paint that once adorned the walls has mostly peeled off from the chasm's extreme heat.
>
>**Ghost**. As one or more characters attempt to cross the room, the **ghost** of **Fidelio**, a human paladin of Tyr, appears in the middle of the room. The air around it reeks of cheap cologne.
>

**Fidelio**'s ghost has 80 hit points and appears as a translucent knight in shining armor, with the symbol of Tyr (a set of balanced scales) on his ghostly breastplate. The ghost is lawful good and speaks in Common. If the ghost is reduced to 0 hit points, it re-forms 24 hours later in a random location within the Obstacle Course and remains there until encountered again.

Over a century ago, **Fidelio** began his campaign to single-handedly rid Undermountain of evil, foolishly believing that Tyr would not let him perish. The arrogant paladin fought his way down to the Obstacle Course, only to be disintegrated unceremoniously by Netherskull. **Fidelio**'s convictions are so strong, however, that his spirit cannot rest until it defeats Netherskull in battle. The ghost has confronted the death tyrant many times on its own, but these battles are always short-lived, ending with Netherskull destroying the ghost and causing it to re-form elsewhere in the dungeon.

**Fidelio**'s ghost is looking for a potential host who is willing to be possessed by it. A character who allows the possession forgoes the saving throw to resist the effect, and you can allow the player to continue running the character. While possessed, the character gains the following flaw, which supersedes any conflicting personality trait: "I, **Fidelio**, favored son of Tyr, must strike down Netherskull at all costs, as justice demands." The character also reeks of cheap cologne while possessed.

His arrogance aside, **Fidelio** won't possess a humanoid without its consent. If it can't find a willing host, it offers to join the party on two conditions: the characters must seek out Netherskull with haste, combat it, and allow **Fidelio** to deal the death blow to it. The ghost knows the location of the death tyrant's lair (area 39c) but doesn't know how to open the doors that lead to it, or about the secret way in (area 39b).

If Netherskull is reduced to 0 hit points by a creature other than **Fidelio**'s ghost or its host, the paladin of Tyr can't accept that someone other than he dealt the killing blow. The ghost wallows in despair, doomed to haunt the Obstacle Course until another follower of Tyr convinces it to move on with a successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check. A non-follower can attempt the check, but only by posing as a Tyr worshiper and fooling the ghost with a successful DC 10 Charisma (Deception) check.

If it succeeds in reducing Netherskull to 0 hit points, either as a ghost or when in possession of a host, **Fidelio**'s ghost is laid to rest. "Victory at last!" says the ghost as it fades away. Afterward, Tyr bestows a *blessing of protection* (see "*Supernatural Gifts*" in chapter 7 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*) on any character who served as **Fidelio**'s host.

For laying **Fidelio**'s spirit to rest, the characters should receive XP as if they had defeated the ghost in combat.