# 7. Halls of Worship

Cultists gather in this area to worship Shar and suffer Keresta's tests of devotion.

#### 7a. Crawling Rats

Characters hear human voices chanting as they approach this chamber, which contains the following:

>**Purple Flames**. The walls are lined with rusty iron sconces, each holding a torch coated in black wax that burns with a purple flame.
>
>**Cult Ritual**. Six human **cultists** of Shar kneel on rough woven mats in the center of this area, chanting in low tones. A human **cult fanatic** engulfed in a **swarm of rats** stands quietly in their midst.
>

The kneeling cultists are named Caradoc, Feldar, Hong, Khafra, Serenade, and Xandeval. They are chanting the following verse over and over in Common: "Darkness quench the sun. Darkness swallow the moon. We are nothing but the night."

**Keresta Delvingstone** is using the swarm of rats to test the cult fanatic, whose name is Jian. To pass the test, Jian must allow the rats to crawl over his body without fear or protest, or else they will devour him. Only by passing this test can Jian qualify to become one of Keresta's vampire spawn.

The arrival of intruders prompts the cultists to take up arms and attack. Jian, however, does nothing while the rats swarm over him. If he takes damage, Jian panics and is swiftly devoured by the rats. If the swarm loses more than half its hit points, it scatters and flees.

#### 7b. Ritual Preparation

>**Table**. In the middle of the room stands a wooden trestle table bearing a small pile of treasure, along with bottles of oil and flickering candles.
>
>**Cultists**. Two human **cultists** of Shar are anointing the precious baubles with oil.
>

The cultists are named Elthimar and Zelaya. They are carefully anointing items that have been plucked from **Umbraxakar**'s hoard—treasures that will be used in rituals to tether the shadow dragon's memories to specific areas of Vanrakdoom.

***Treasure.*** The items on the table include three silver bowls (25 gp each), two ceremonial daggers with wavy obsidian blades (75 gp each), a coral figurine of a mermaid clutching a pink pearl (250 gp), a carved harp of exotic wood with ivory inlay and zircon gemstones (750 gp), and a crystal dragon mask (2,500 gp).

#### 7c. Feeding Hall

Cultists unworthy of becoming **vampire spawn** are brought here to nourish Keresta's brood.

>**Vampires' Feast**. A dead male human lies naked on a chaise longue in the center of the room, his cast-off purple and black robe draped over a small table nearby. Two **vampire spawn** loom over the body, one slurping ferociously at the corpse's wrist while the other sinks her fangs deeper into the corpse's thigh.
>
>**Purple Flames**. The walls are lined with rusty iron sconces, each holding a torch coated in black wax that burns with a purple flame. Situated between the sconces are fancy wooden chairs with red-cushioned seats and backrests.
>
>**Secret Door**. A secret door in the east wall leads to area 8.
>

The vampire spawn, named Angelica and Yaveros, hiss at intruders and demand they leave at once, attacking those who disobey. Close examination of the dead cultist reveals no signs of a struggle, suggesting that he offered no resistance as he died from exsanguination.