# 7. Standing Gate to Level 21

>**Rubble**. The floor of this 20-foot-high cave is strewn with stony rubble that acts as difficult terrain.
>
>**Fake Beholder**. A **gas spore**, easily mistaken for a beholder, floats near a pair of 15-foot-tall menhirs made of semitransparent crystal. Imprisoned inside each menhir is a sleeping **nalfeshnee**, its leathery wings wrapped tightly around its head and body.
>

The gas spore drifted into this cave from area 8. Its spores contain memory fragments of the dead beholder that birthed it. A creature that inhales the spores inherits a random memory, determined by rolling on the Beholder Memories table. These memories are experienced from the eye tyrant's point of view.

##### Beholder Memories
|  d100 | Memory                                                                                                                                                     |
|:-----:|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 01–20 | The beholder chases a deep gnome through a fungal forest in a vast Underdark cavern illuminated by glowing mushrooms and phosphorescent fungi.             |
| 21–40 | The beholder encounters another of its kind in the Underdark and, after a fierce volley of eye rays, it turns its rival to dust with a Disintegration Ray. |
| 41–60 | The beholder examines a tower-sized stalagmite with a large crystal atop it (see level 20, area 14).                                                       |
| 61–80 | The beholder is swallowed by a purple worm and uses its Charm Ray to make the worm release it.                                                             |
| 81–00 | The beholder falls into a sinkhole as it succumbs to Halaster's *finger of death* spell (see area 8).                                                      |

#### Nalfeshnees

The sleeping demons can't be targeted by spells or attacks while trapped inside the crystal menhirs. They remain asleep until awakened (see "Standing Gate" below). An awakened nalfeshnee teleports out of its menhir and attacks, then returns to slumber in its menhir when there are no more enemies in sight.

#### Standing Gate

The crystal menhirs are indestructible and form one of Halaster's magic gates (see "Gates"). Striking either menhir with a hard object or targeting it with a *shatter* spell deals no damage but causes the standing stone to ring loudly, awakening the demon inside. Nothing else causes these demons to awaken. While outside its menhir, a nalfeshnee can be magically compelled to divulge the command word that activates the gate. A *legend lore* spell or similar magic also reveals the command word. The current word is "Kelserath," but Halaster changes it every few days.

The rules of this gate are as follows:

- The gate opens for 1 minute if a creature speaks the proper command word within 10 feet of it.
- Characters must be 16th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 23b on level 21, in the closest unoccupied space next to the identical gate located there.