# 8. Made of Stone

Gargoyles and stone golems watch over these caves, and Halaster has left a few other surprises here as well.

#### 8a. Gargoyles and Golems

>**Ceiling**. This cavern has walls that slope inward to form a 30-foot-high peak.
>
>**Gargoyles**. Six **gargoyles** cling to ledges 20 feet up the walls, three at the north end of the cavern and three at the south end.
>
>**Golems**. Two **stone golems** carved to resemble Halaster (see "Stonecloaks") stand watch on the cavern floor. One is positioned near the tunnel to area 9a; the other is close to the tunnel to area 6a.
>

The gargoyles serve Halaster. They remain motionless unless they are attacked or combat erupts in this area, whereupon they fight as allies of the stone golems.

The golems are hostile toward any creature that doesn't look like Halaster or a gargoyle. A character disguised as Halaster can make a Charisma (Deception) check contested by the golems' Wisdom (Insight) check, with advantage on the check if the portrayal is particularly convincing. On a successful check, the golem won't attack that character unless the character attacks it.

#### 8b. Natural Frieze

Rivulets of water trickling down the back wall of this damp 15-foot-high cave have eroded the stone in a spectacular way, creating a natural frieze that resembles a hunched male human leaning down to pick up a staff while a great blue dragon sneaks up behind him. Halaster's contribution to the natural carving is the staff, which he formed out of the rock.

#### 8c. Acid Tentacles

The gargoyles and golems in area 8a won't enter this empty cavern, the ceiling of which is a rough 15-foot-high dome. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of conjuration magic throughout the cave—the effect of a magic trap placed here by Halaster.

When one or more creatures reach the cavern's midpoint, 15-foot-long tentacles of acid magically erupt from the floor, walls, and ceiling. A creature that enters the tentacle-filled cavern for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) acid damage and be grappled by a tentacle (escape DC 22). A creature that starts its turn grappled by a tentacle automatically takes 10 (3d6) acid damage.

The tentacles can't be damaged, and *dispel magic* has no effect on them. The tentacles disappear when all creatures have left the cavern. If the words "Halaster, save us!" are spoken aloud in the cavern in Common, the tentacles disappear, and the trap can't trigger again for 1 hour.

#### 8d. Golden Haungharassk

>**Slime**. A thin layer of slime covers the walls and floor of this 20-foot-high cavern.
>
>**Fungus**. A patch of glowing fungus sprouts from the east wall.
>
>**Giant Snail**. In the northern part of the cave lurks **Haungharassk**, a magical snail as large as an elephant, with a shell of gleaming gold.
>

Halaster placed **Haungharassk** here, setting up the trap in area 8c both to confine the creature and to prevent others from killing it. The giant snail is an unaligned Huge beast with AC 6, 52 (7d12 + 7) hit points, and walking and climbing speeds of 10 feet. It can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. Its ability scores are as follows: Strength 20, Dexterity 3, Constitution 13, Intelligence 3, Wisdom 10, Charisma 3. It has no attacks and can't speak. A pound of salt thrown onto the snail's skin deals 1d6 acid damage to the creature.

The glowing golden hue of **Haungharassk**'s shell is augmented by veins of real gold. That gold can be stripped from the shell, but only if the snail is dead (see "Treasure" below). Killing the snail yields no XP.

A *detect magic* spell reveals a powerful aura of abjuration magic around the snail. A creature that uses an action to touch the living snail gains 6 temporary hit points that last for 24 hours. Any creature or object that touches the living snail also gains the benefit of a *remove curse* spell. The snail loses these magical properties if it dies.

The characters can lead **Haungharassk** around by feeding it plants, fungi, or algae. A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) check enables a character to discern what the giant snail likes to eat.

The patch of glowing fungus magically regrows each time it is picked. It is the snail's food source. The fungus dies if taken from this area.

***Treasure.*** Characters who kill **Haungharassk** can strip 100 pounds of gold from the snail's shell with a few hours' work. The gold is worth 20,000 gp.