# 9. Hidden Rune

This 20-foot-high chamber shows signs of past extravagance. It has the following features:

>**Chasm**. The floor to the north gives way to a chasm and a hot, bubbling pool of lava 30 feet below. Intense heat from the lava fills this room.
>
>**Bridge**. A 10-foot-wide spectral bridge—nothing more than a flat plane of wispy, magical force—extends across the chasm from this room to another ledge 120 feet away. (For more information on the bridge, see area 16. The far ledge is described in area 17.)
>
>**Double Door**. At the south end of the room, two pillars carved with scores of eyes flank a stone double door engraved with a giant letter H.
>

If their handles are tugged, the double doors fly open, revealing a stone wall with a giant elder rune carved into it (see "Elder Runes"). Draw a card from the Elder Runes Deck (see *appendix B*) to determine which rune waits beyond the doors. This rune targets all creatures in the room with the same effect (bane or boon, determined randomly). If Halaster's personal rune is indicated, an additional effect occurs: the pillars flanking the doorway shoot multicolored rays from their eyes, and each creature in the room becomes the target of a *prismatic spray* spell (save DC 22). Once this effect is resolved, the elder rune on the wall disappears, and the doors slam shut unless they are held open or otherwise prevented from closing.

When the doors close, the trap resets so that the next time the doors open, another randomly determined elder rune appears on the wall behind them.