# 9. Vaults

These chambers have 15-foot-high, flat ceilings.

#### 9a. Hall of Staffs

>**Mosaics**. Tiled mosaics depicting a variety of magic staffs cover the walls. (Hidden behind a mosaic depicting a *staff of thunder and lightning* is a secret door.)
>
>**Dead End**. Part of the eastern wall has been obliterated, leaving behind a jagged dead-end tunnel.
>

The mosaic of the *staff of thunder and lightning*, unlike the others, is cracked and scorched. If this section of wall is targeted by any effect that deals lightning or thunder damage, the secret door hidden behind the mosaic swings opens into area 9b. *Knock* spells and similar magic have no effect on the secret door, but a *disintegrate* spell destroys it. No amount of physical force can open the secret door from this side, but the door opens easily from area 9b.

#### 9b. Diabolical Shield

Hanging on the west wall of this otherwise empty 15-foot-high room is a steel shield cast in the form of a scowling devil's face wreathed by bronze flames.

A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of abjuration magic around the otherwise ordinary shield, inside which is trapped a **deva** named Aryx. While trapped in the shield, Aryx can't communicate with anyone. Any ability that detects the presence of celestials, such as a paladin's Divine Sense class feature, reveals the presence of such a creature bound within the shield. If a *dispel evil and good* spell is cast on the shield, or if the shield comes within 10 feet of a fiend, the deva is released, appearing within 5 feet of the shield or in the nearest unoccupied space. Once freed, the deva uses its *detect evil and good* spell to determine if there are any evil creatures in its presence. If so, Aryx attacks them, targeting fiends above all others.

Aryx was sent by Tyr, the god of justice, to talk some sense into **Fazrian**, the fallen planetar on level 21. Before Aryx could approach **Fazrian**, however, Halaster trapped the deva in the shield. Aryx must complete its mission before it can return to Tyr's heavenly realm. If the characters claim to have killed **Fazrian** or helped the planetar achieve atonement, the deva uses a *commune* spell to verify as much. If the characters speak the truth, Aryx shows its gratitude by granting each party member a *blessing of health* (see "*Supernatural Gifts*" in chapter 7 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*). If the characters have not yet dealt with the fallen planetar on *level 21*, Aryx offers to fight alongside the party until such time as it can leave this level and complete its mission, provided the characters aren't predominantly evil. If the characters help Aryx defeat **Fazrian** later on, the deva shows its gratitude by bestowing upon them the *blessing of health*.