# 9. Way to the Gate

These out-of-the-way caverns hold one of Halaster's magic gates, the approach to which is closely watched by his servants.

#### 9a. Stonecloak Sentries

Two **stone golems** carved to resemble Halaster (see "Stonecloaks") stand east of the two columns of rock that support the 20-foot-high ceiling of this otherwise empty cave. Characters who enter the area through the northwest tunnel can't see the golems right away because the rock columns provide total cover.

The golems are hostile toward any creature that doesn't look like Halaster. A character disguised as Halaster can make a Charisma (Deception) check contested by the golems' Wisdom (Insight) check, with advantage on the check if the portrayal is particularly convincing. On a successful check, the golem won't attack that character unless the character attacks it.

#### 9b. Arch Gate to Level 15

>**Rubble**. The floor of this 50-foot-high cavern is strewn with the remains of a dozen gargoyles. (The gargoyles once guarded the gate in this cavern, but the Stonecloaks destroyed them.)
>
>**Arch**. A ramp hugs the south wall and climbs to a 20-foot-high ledge. A stone arch is embedded in the wall at the west end of the ledge.
>

The arch is one of Halaster's gates (see "Gates"). It is composed of one hundred stone jigsaw pieces, each weighing 10 pounds. The rules of this gate are as follows:

- Only one piece of the arch can be removed at any given time. A *detect magic* spell reveals that one of the pieces (determined randomly) is magical. When that piece is removed from the arch, it disappears, and the gate opens for 1 minute. When the gate closes, the piece removed from the arch magically reappears in its proper place, and a different piece becomes magical and must be removed to reopen the gate.
- If a wrong piece is removed from the arch, a **beholder** magically appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the arch and attacks any creature it can see. The beholder disappears when it is slain or after 1 minute. When the beholder disappears, the piece that was removed from the arch magically reappears in its previous place.
- Characters must be 13th level or higher to pass through this gate (see "Jhesiyra Kestellharp"). The first creature to pass through the gate triggers an elder rune (see "Elder Runes").
- A creature that passes through the gate appears in area 15 on level 15, in the closest unoccupied space next to the identical gate located there.

***Puzzle Piece.*** On the ledge near the arch, not visible from the cavern floor, a 25-pound chunk of smooth stone is carved in the shape of a jigsaw puzzle piece and painted with part of an unknown image on one side. This stone is the missing piece of the jigsaw puzzle in area 10.