# Duergar Calassabrak

A duergar prince named **Valtagar Steelshadow** traveled to Undermountain to plunder its mines and use the wealth to buy his way back into the court of his older brother, King Horgar Steelshadow V, the Deepking of Gracklstugh (see the adventure *Out of the Abyss* for more information on this subterranean duergar city). Valtagar's problems began years earlier, when he led a hunting expedition into a region of the Underdark patrolled by the drow houses of Menzoberranzan. Valtagar was captured by drow scouts, and Horgar was forced to pay a king's ransom in coin and slaves to free him. Hungry for vengeance, Valtagar and his followers began attacking drow outposts, hoping to foment war between Gracklstugh and Menzoberranzan. When drow ambassadors confronted Horgar with proof of Valtagar's plot, Horgar banished Valtagar and his co-conspirators, who would henceforth be known as *calassabrak*—outcasts no longer welcome in Gracklstugh.

After long holding the Deep Mines, Valtagar and his duergar followers were forced back into the Underdark by the planetar's sudden arrival and subsequent bloody crusade. Weeks after retreating, they returned to discover that the mines were much changed and even deadlier than before. The planetar slaughtered a number of Valtagar's followers until the prince stood before the planetar alone, empty-handed and daring the fallen angel to kill him. Valtagar's gesture of self-sacrifice moved **Fazrian**, who judged him worthy of remaining alive. Valtagar now holds a tenuous position as Lord of the Mines, one of the fallen angel's advisors. Despite now being "vassals" of **Fazrian**, all the duergar on this level remain loyal to their prince and follow Valtagar's orders without question.

Valtagar intends to overthrow **Fazrian**, buy off the yugoloths, and seize control of the Terminus Level. Toward that end, he is quick to forge alliances with adventurers who are also interested in bringing about the planetar's downfall.